Harry fumbled for his alarm clock and looked at it. It was half past
four. Cursing Peeves, he rolled over and tried to get back to sleep, but
it was very difficult, now that he was awake, to ignore the sounds of
the thunder rumbling overhead, the pounding of the wind against the
castle walls, and the distant creaking of the trees in the Forbidden
Forest. In a few hours he would be out on the Quidditch field, battling
through that gale. Finally, he gave up any thought of more sleep, got
up, dressed, picked up his Nimbus Two Thousand, and walked quietly out
of the dormitory.It was a relief to return to the noise and bustle of the main school on
Monday, where he was forced to think about other things, eve', if he had
to endure Draco Malfoys taunting. Malfoy was almost beside himself with
glee at Gryffindor's defeat. He had finally taken off his bandages, and
celebrated having the full use of both arms again by doing spirited
imitations of Harry falling off his broom. Malfoy spent much of their
next Potions class doing dementor imitations across the dungeon; Ron
finally cracked and flung a large, slippery crocodile heart at Malfoy,
which hit him in the face and caused Snape to take fifty points from
Gryffindor.As the days slipped by, Harry started looking wherever he went for a
sign of Ron or Hermione. Plenty of Hogwarts students were arriving in
Diagon Alley now, with the start of term so near. Harry met Seamus
Finnigan and Dean Thomas, his fellow Gryffindors, in Quality Quidditch
Supplies, where they too were ogling the Firebolt; he also ran into the
real Neville Longbottom, a round-faced, forgetful boy, outside Flourish
and Blotts. Harry didn't stop to chat; Neville appeared to have mislaid
his booklist and was being told off by his very formidable-looking
grandmother. Harry hoped she never found out that he'd pretended to be
Neville while on the run from the Ministry of Magic.
Harry woke on the last day of the holidays, thinking that he would at
least meet Ron and Hermione tomorrow, on the Hogwarts Express. He got
up, dressed, went for a last look at the Firebolt, and was just
wondering where he'd have lunch, when someone yelled his name and he
turned.
"Harry! HARRY!"
They were there, both of them, sitting outside Florean Fortescue's Ice
Cream Parlor -- Ron looking incredibly freckly, Her,,one very brown,
both waving frantically at him.
"Finally!" said Ron, grinning at Harry as he sat down. "We went to the
Leaky Cauldron, but they said you'd left, and we went to Flourish and
Blotts, and Madam Malkin's, and --"
46
"I got all my school stuff last week," Harry explained. "And how come
You knew I'm staying at the Leaky Cauldron?" "Dad," said Ron simply.
Mr. Weasley, who worked at the Ministry of Magic, would of course have
heard the whole story of what had happened to Aunt Marge.
"Did you really blow up your aunt, Harry?" said Hermione in a very
serious voice.
"I didn't mean to," said Harry, while Ron roared with laughter. "I just
-- lost control."
"It's not funny, Ron," said Hermione sharply. "Honestly, I'm amazed
Harry wasn't expelled."
"So am I," admitted Harry. "Forget expelled, I thought I was going to be
arrested." He looked at Ron. "Your dad doesn't know why Fudge let me
off, does he?"
"Probably 'cause it's you, isn't it?" shrugged Ron, still chuckling.
"Famous Harry Potter and all that. I'd hate to see what the Ministry'd
do to me if I blew up an aunt. Mind you, they'd have to dig me up first,
because Mum would've killed me. Anyway, you can ask Dad yourself this
evening. We're staying at the Leaky Cauldron tonight too! So you can
come to King's Cross with us tomorrow! Hermione's there as well!"
Hermione nodded, beaming. "Mum and Dad dropped me off this morning with
all my Hogwarts things."
"Excellent!" said Harry happily. "So, have you got all your new books
and stuff?"
"Look at this," said Ron, pulling a long thin box out of a bag and
opening it. "Brand-new wand. Fourteen inches, willow, containing one
unicorn tail-hair. And we've got all our books --" He pointed at a large
bag under his chair. "What about those Monster Books, eh? The assistant
nearly cried when we said we wanted two."Harry felt himself slam flat into the ground; his face was pressed into grass; the
smell of it filled his nostrils. He had closed his eyes while the Portkey transported
him, and he kept them closed now. He did not move. All the breath seemed to
have been knocked out of him; his head was swimming so badly he felt as though
the ground beneath him were swaying like the deck of a ship. To hold himself
steady, he tightened his hold on the two things he was still clutching: the smooth,
cold handle of the Triwizard Cup and Cedric's body. He felt as though he would
slide away into the blackness gathering at the edges of his brain if he let go of
either of them. Shock and exhaustion kept him on the ground, breathing in the
smell of the grass, waiting . . . waiting for someone to do something . . . something
to happen . . . and all the while, his scar burned dully on his forehead. . . .
A torrent of sound deafened and confused him; there were voices everywhere,
footsteps, screams. ... He remained where he was, his face screwed up against the
noise, as though it were a nightmare that would pass. . . .
Then a pair of hands seized him roughly and turned him over.
"Harry! Harry!"
He opened his eyes.
He was looking up at the starry sky, and Albus Dumbledore was crouched over
him. The dark shadows of a crowd of people pressed in around them, pushing
nearer; Harry felt the ground beneath his head reverberating with their footsteps.
He had come back to the edge of the maze. He could see the stands rising above
him, the shapes of people moving in them, the stars above.
Harry let go of the cup, but he clutched Cedric to him even more tightly. He raised
his free hand and seized Dumbledore's wrist, while Dumbledore's face swam in
and out of focus.
"He's back," Harry whispered. "He's back. Voldemort."
"What's going on? What's happened?"
The face of Cornelius Fudge appeared upside down over Harry; it looked white,
appalled.
"My God - Diggory!" it whispered. "Dumbledore - he's dead!"
The words were repeated, the shadowy figures pressing in on them gasped it to
those around them . . . and then others shouted it - screeched it - into the night -
"He's dead!" "He's dead!" "Cedric Diggory! Dead!"
434
"Harry, let go of him," he heard Fudge's voice say, and he felt fingers trying to pry
him from Cedric's limp body, but Harry wouldn't let him go. Then Dumbledore's
face, which was still blurred and misted, came closer.
"Harry, you can't help him now. It's over. Let go."
"He wanted me to bring him back," Harry muttered - it seemed important to
explain this. "He wanted me to bring him back to his parents. ..."
"That's right. Harry . . . just let go now. . . ."
Dumbledore bent down, and with extraordinary strength for a man so old and thin,
raised Harry from the ground and set -him on his feet. Harry swayed. His head
was pounding. His injured leg would no longer support his weight. The crowd
around them jostled, fighting to get closer, pressing darkly in on him - "What's
happened?" "What's wrong with him?" "Diggorys dead!"
"He'll need to go to the hospital wing!" Fudge was saying loudly. "He's ill, he's
injured - Dumbledore, Diggory's parents, they're here, they're in the stands. ..."
"I'll take Harry, Dumbledore, I'll take him -"
"No, I would prefer-"
"Dumbledore, Amos Diggorys running . . . he's coming over. . . . Don't you think
you should tell him - before he sees - ?"
"Harry, stay here -"
Girls were screaming, sobbing hysterically.... The scene flickered oddly before
Harry's eyes. . . .
"Its all right, son, I've got you . . . come on ... hospital wing . . ."
"Dumbledore said stay," said Harry thickly, the pounding in his scar making him
feel as though he was about to throw up; his vision was blurring worse than ever.
"You need to lie down. . .. Come on now...."
Someone larger and stronger than he was was half pulling, half carrying him
through the frightened crowd. Harry heard people gasping, screaming, and
shouting as the man supporting him pushed a path through them, taking him back
to the castle. Across the lawn, past the lake and the Durmstrang ship, Harry heard
nothing but the heavy breathing of the man helping him walk.
"What happened. Harry?" the man asked at last as he lifted Harry up the stone
steps. Clunk. Clunk. Clunk. It was Mad-Eye Moody.
"Cup was a Portkey," said Harry as they crossed the entrance hall. "Took me and
Cedric to a graveyard . . . and Voldemort was there . . . Lord Voldemort..."
435
Clunk. Clunk. Clunk. Up the marble stairs . . .
"The Dark Lord was there? What happened then?"
"Killed Cedric . . . they killed Cedric. . . ."
"And then?"
Clunk. Clunk. Clunk. Along the corridor . . .
"Made a potion . . . got his body back. . . ."
"The Dark Lord got his body back? He's returned?"
"And the Death Eaters came . . . and then we dueled. ..."
"You dueled with the Dark Lord?"
"Got away . . . my wand . . . did something funny. ... I saw my mum and dad . . .
they came out of his wand. ..."
"In here. Harry ... in here, and sit down. . . . You'll be all right now . . . drink this.
..."
Harry heard a key scrape in a lock and felt a cup being pushed into his hands.
"Drink it... you'll feel better . . . come on, now. Harry, I need to know exactly what
happened. ..."
Moody helped tip the stuff down Harrys throat; he coughed, a peppery taste
burning his throat. Moody's office came into sharper focus, and so did Moody
himself. ... He looked as white as Fudge had looked, and both eyes were fixed
unblinkingly upon Harry's face.
"Voldemort's back, Harry? You're sure he's back? How did he do it?"
"He took stuff from his father's grave, and from Wormtail, and me," said Harry.
His head felt clearer; his scar wasn't hurting so badly; he could now see Moodys
face distinctly, even though the office was dark. He could still hear screaming and
shouting from the distant Quidditch field.
"What did the Dark Lord take from you?" said Moody.
"Blood," said Harry, raising his arm. His sleeve was ripped where Wormtail's
dagger had torn it.
Moody let out his breath in a long, low hiss.
"And the Death Eaters? They returned?"
"Yes," said Harry. "Loads of them . . ."
"How did he treat them?" Moody asked quietly. "Did he forgive them?"
436
But Harry had suddenly remembered. He should have told Dumbledore, he should
have said it straightaway -
"There's a Death Eater at Hogwarts! There's a Death Eater here - they put my
name in the Goblet of Fire, they made sure I got through to the end -"
Harry tried to get up, but Moody pushed him back down.
"I know who the Death Eater is," he said quietly.
"Karkaroff?" said Harry wildly. "Where is he? Have you got him? Is he locked
up?"
"Karkaroff?" said Moody with an odd laugh. "Karkaroff fled tonight, when he felt
the Dark Mark burn upon his arm. He betrayed too many faithful supporters of the
Dark Lord to wish to meet them . . . but I doubt he will get far. The Dark Lord has
ways of tracking his enemies."
