She sat beside her sister, as unlike her in looks, with her dark hair and
heavily lidded eyes, as she was in bearing and demeanor; where Narcissa sat
rigid and impassive, Bellatrix leaned toward Voldemort, for mere words could
not demonstrate her longer for closeness.
“No higher pleasure,” repeated Voldemort, his head tilted a little to one side
as he considered Bellatrix. “That means a great deal, Bellatrix, from you,”
Her face flooded with color; her eyes welled with tears of delight.
“My Lord knows I speak nothing but the truth!”
“No higher pleasure . . . even compared with the happy event that, I hear,
has taken place in your family this week?”
She stared at him, her lips parted, evidently confused.
“I don’t know what you mean, my Lord.”
“I’m talking about your niece, Bellatrix. And your, Lucius and Narcissa.
She has just married the werewolf, Remus Lupin. You must be so proud.”
There was an eruption of jeering laughter from around the table. Many
leaned forward to exchange gleeful looks, a few thumped the table with their
fists. The great snake, disliking the disturbance, opened its mouth and hissed
angrily, but the Death Eaters did not hear it, so jubilant where that at Bellatrix
and the Malfoys’ humiliation. Bellatrix’s face, so recently flushed with
happiness, had turned an ugly, blotchy red.
“She is no niece of ours, my Lord,” she cried over the outpouring of mirth.
“We—Narcissa and I—have never set eyes on our sister since she married the
Mudblood. This brat has nothing to do with either of us, nor any beast she
marries.”
“What say you, Draco?” asked Voldemort, and though his voice was quiet,
it carried clearly through the catcalls and jeers. “Will you babysit the cubs?”
The hilarity mounted; Draco Malfoy looked in terror at his father, who was
staring down into his own lap, then caught his mother’s eye. She shook her
head almost imperceptibly, then resumed her own deadpan stare at the opposite
wall.
“Enough,” said Voldemort, stroking the angry snake. “Enough.”
15
And the laughter died at once.
“Many of our oldest family trees become a little diseased over time,” he said
as Bellatrix gazed at him, breathless and imploring. “You must prune yours,
must you not, to keep it healthy? Cut away those parts that threaten the health
of the rest.”
“Yes, my Lord,” whispered Bellatrix, and her eyes swam with tears of gratitude
again. “At the first chance!”
“You shall have it,” said Voldemort. “And in your family, so in the world
. . . we shall cut away the canker that infects us until only those of the true
blood remain . . . ”
Voldemort raised Lucius Malfoy’s wand, pointed it directly at the slowly
revolving figure suspended over the table, and gave it a tiny flick. The figure
came to life with a groan and began to struggle against invisible bonds.
“Do you recognize our guest, Severus?” asked Voldemort.
Snape raised his eyes to the upside down face. All of the Death Eaters
were looking up at the captive now, as though they had been given permission
to show curiosity. As she revolved to face the firelight, the woman said in a
cracked and terrified voice. “Severus! Help me!”
“Ah, yes,” said Snape as the prisoner turned slowly away again.
“And you, Draco?” asked Voldemort, stroking the snake’s snout with his
wand-free hand. Draco shook his head jerkily. now that the woman had woken,
he seems unable to look at her anymore.
“But you would not have taken her classes,” said Voldemort. “For those of
you who do not know, we are joined here tonight by Charity Burbage, who until
recently, taught at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.”
There were small noises of comprehension around the table. A broad, hunched
woman with pointed teeth cackled.
“Yes . . . Professor Burbage taught the children of witches and wizards all
about Muggles . . . how they are not so different from us . . . ”
One of the Death Eaters spat on the floor. Charity Burbage revolved to face
Snape again.
16 CHAPTER 1. THE DARK LORD ASCENDING
“Severus . . . please . . . please . . . ”
“Silence,” said Voldemort, with another twitch of Malfoy’s wand, and Charity
fell silent as if gagged. “Not content with corrupting and polluting the minds
of Wizarding children, last week Professor Burbage wrote an impassioned defense
of Mudbloods in the Daily Prophet. Wizards, she says, must accept those
thieves of their knowledge and magic. The dwindling of the purebloods is, says
Professor Burbage, a most desirable circumstance . . . She would have use all
mate with Muggles . . . or, no doubt, werewolves . . . ”
Nobody laughed this time; There was no mistaking the anger and contempt
in Voldemort’s voice. For the third time, Charity Burbage revolved to face
Snape. Tears were pouring from her eyes into her hair. Snape looked back
at her, quite impassive, as she turned slowly away from his again.
“Avada Kedavra.”
The flash of green light illuminated every corner of the room. Charity fell,
with a resounding crash, onto the table below, which trembled and creaked.
Several of the Death Eaters leapt back in their chairs. Draco fell out of his onto
the floor.
“Dinner, Nagini,” said Voldemort softly, and the great snake swayed and
slithered from his shoulders onto the polished wood.You said you'd already worked out that egg clue!" said Hermione indignantly.
"Keep your voice down!" said Harry crossly. "I just need to - sort of fine-tune it,
all right?"
He, Ron, and Hermione were sitting at the very back of the Charms class with a
table to themselves. They were supposed to be practicing the opposite of the
Summoning Charm today - the Banishing Charm. Owing to the potential for nasty
accidents when objects kept flying across the room. Professor Flitwick had given
each student a stack of cushions on which to practice, the theory being that these
wouldn't hurt anyone if they went off target. It was a good theory, but it wasn't
working very well. Neville's aim was so poor that he kept accidentally sending
much heavier things flying across the room - Professor Flitwick, for instance.
"Just forget the egg for a minute, all right?" Harry hissed as Professor Flitwick
went whizzing resignedly past them, landing on top of a large cabinet. "I'm trying
to tell you about Snape and Moody. ..."
This class was an ideal cover for a private conversation, as everyone was having
far too much fun to pay them any attention. Harry had been recounting his
adventures of the previous night in whispered installments for the last half hour.
"Snape said Moodys searched his office as well?" Ron whispered, his eyes alight
with interest as he Banished a cushion with a sweep of his wand (it soared into the
air and knocked Parvati's hat off). "What. . . d'you reckon Moody's here to keep an
eye on Snape as well as Karkaroff?"
"Well, I dunno if that's what Dumbledore asked him to do, but he's definitely
doing it," said Harry, waving his wand without paying much attention, so that his
cushion did an odd sort of belly flop off the desk. "Moody said Dumbledore only
lets Snape stay here because he's giving him a second chance or something. ..."
"What?" said Ron, his eyes widening, his next cushion spinning high into the air,
ricocheting off the chandelier, and dropping heavily onto Flitwick's desk. "Harry...
maybe Moody thinks Snape put your name in the Goblet of Fire!"
"Oh Ron," said Hermione, shaking her head sceptically, "we thought Snape was
trying to kill Harry before, and it turned out he was saving Harry's life,
remember?"
She Banished a cushion and it flew across the room and landed in the box they
were all supposed to be aiming at. Harry looked at Hermione, thinking... it was
true that Snape had saved his life once, but the odd thing was, Snape definitely
loathed him, just as he'd loathed Harry s father when they had been at school
together. Snape loved taking points from Harry, and had certainly never missed an
opportunity to give him punishments, or even to suggest that he should be
312
suspended from the school.
"I don't care what Moody says," Hermione went on. "Dumbledore's not stupid. He
was right to trust Hagrid and Professor Lupin, even though loads of people
wouldn't have given them jobs, so why shouldn't he be right about Snape, even if
Snape is a bit -"
"- evil," said Ron promptly. "Come on, Hermione, why are all these Dark wizard
catchers searching his office, then?"
"Why has Mr. Crouch been pretending to be ill?" said Hermione, ignoring Ron.
"Its a bit funny, isn't it, that he cant manage to come to the Yule Ball, but he can
get up here in the middle of the night when he wants to?"
"You just don't like Crouch because of that elf, Winky," said Ron, sending a
cushion soaring into the window.
"You just want to think Snapes up to something," said Hermione, sending her
cushion zooming neatly into the box.
"I just want to know what Snape did with his first chance, if he's on his second
one," said Harry grimly, and his cushion, to his very great surprise, flew straight
across the room and landed neatly on top of Hermione's.
Obedient to Sirius's wish of hearing about anything odd at Hogwarts, Harry sent
him a letter by brown owl that night, explaining all about Mr. Crouch breaking
into Snape s office, and Moody and Snape's conversation. Then Harry turned his
attention in earnest to the most urgent problem facing him: how to survive
underwater for an hour on the twenty-fourth of February.
Ron quite liked the idea of using the Summoning Charm again - Harry had
explained about Aqua-Lungs, and Ron couldn't see why Harry shouldn't Summon
one from the nearest Muggle town. Hermione squashed this plan by pointing out
that, in the unlikely event that Harry managed to learn how to operate an Aqua-
Lung within the set limit of an hour, he was sure to be disqualified for breaking
the International Code of Wizarding Secrecy - it was too much to hope that no
Muggles would spot an Aqua-Lung zooming across the countryside to Hogwarts.
"Of course, the ideal solution would be for you to Transfigure yourself into a
submarine or something," Hermione said. "If only we'd done human
Transfiguration already! But I don't think we start that until sixth year, and it can
go badly wrong if you don't know what you're doing...."
"Yeah, I don't fancy walking around with a periscope sticking out of my head,"
said Harry. "I s'pose I could always attack someone in front of Moody; he might
do it for me...."
"I don't think he'd let you choose what you wanted to be turned into, though," said
Hermione seriously. "No, I think your best chance is some sort of charm."
313
So Harry, thinking that he would soon have had enough of the library to last him a
lifetime, buried himself once more among the dusty volumes, looking for any spell
that might enable a human to survive without oxygen. However, though he, Ron,
and Hermione searched through their lunchtimes, evenings, and whole weekends -
though Harry asked Professor McGonagall for a note of permission to use the
Restricted Section, and even asked the irritable, vulture-like librarian. Madam
Pince, for help - they found nothing whatsoever that would enable Harry to spend
an hour underwater and live to tell the tale.
Familiar flutterings of panic were starting to disturb Harry now, and he was
finding it difficult to concentrate in class again. The lake, which Harry had always
taken for granted as just another feature of the grounds, drew his eyes whenever he
was near a classroom window, a great, iron-gray mass of chilly water, whose dark
and icy depths were starting to seem as distant as the moon.
Just as it had before he faced the Horntail, time was slipping away as though
somebody had bewitched the clocks to go extra-fast. There was a week to go
before February the twenty-fourth (there was still time) . . . there were five days to
go (he was bound to find something soon) .. . three days to go (please let me find
something... please). . .
With two days left. Harry started to go off food again. The only good thing about
breakfast on Monday was the return of the brown owl he had sent to Sirius. He
pulled off the parchment, unrolled it, and saw the shortest letter Sirius had ever
written to him.
Send date of next Hogsmeade weekend by return owl.
Harry turned the parchment over and looked at the back, hoping to see something
else, but it was blank.
"Weekend after next," whispered Hermione, who had read the note over Harrys
shoulder. "Here - take my quill and send this owl back straight away."
Harry scribbled the dates down on the back of Sirius's letter, tied it onto the brown
owl's leg, and watched it take flight again. What had he expected? Advice on how
to survive underwater? He had been so intent on telling Sirius all about Snape and
Moody he had completely forgotten to mention the eggs clue.
"What's he want to know about the next Hogsmeade weekend for?" said Ron.
"Dunno," said Harry dully. The momentary happiness that had flared inside him at
the sight of the owl had died. "Come on ...Care of Magical Creatures."
Whether Hagrid was trying to make up for the Blast-Ended Skrewts, or because
there were now only two skrewts left, or because he was trying to prove he could
do anything that Professor Grubbly-Plank could. Harry didnt know, but Hagrid
had been continuing her lessons on unicorns ever since he'd returned to work. It
turned out that Hagrid knew quite as much about unicorns as he did about
314
monsters, though it was clear that he found their lack of poisonous fangs
disappointing.
Today he had managed to capture two unicorn foals. Unlike full-grown unicorns,
they were pure gold. Parvati and Lavender went into transports of delight at the
sight of them, and even Pansy Parkinson had to work hard to conceal how much
she liked them.
"Easier ter spot than the adults," Hagrid told the class. "They turn silver when
they're abou' two years old, an' they grow horns at aroun four. Don' go pure white
till they're full grown, 'round about seven. They're a bit more trustin when they're
babies .. . don mind boys so much.... C'mon, move in a bit, yeh can pat 'em if yeh
want. . . give 'em a few o' these sugar lumps. . . .
"You okay. Harry?" Hagrid muttered, moving aside slightly, while most of the
others swarmed around the baby unicorns.
"Yeah," said Harry. "Jus' nervous, eh?" said Hagrid.
"Bit," said Harry.
