The Prime Minister could not honestly return this compliment, so said nothing at all. He was not remotely pleased to see Fudge, whose occasional appearances, apart from being downright alarming in themselves, generally meant that he was about to hear some very bad news. Furthermore, Fudge was looking distinctly careworn. He was thinner, balder, and grayer, and his face had a crumpled look. The Prime Minister had seen that kind of look in politicians before, and it never boded well.
"How can I help you?" he said, shaking Fudge's hand very briefly and gesturing toward the hardest of the chairs in front of the desk.
"Difficult to know where to begin," muttered Fudge, pulling up the chair, sitting down, and placing his green bowler upon his knees. "What a week, what a week..."
"Had a bad one too, have you?" asked the Prime Minister stiffly, hoping to convey by this that he had quite enough on his plate already without any extra helpings from Fudge.
"Yes, of course," said Fudge, rubbing his eyes wearily and looking morosely at the Prime Minister. "I've been having the same week you have, Prime Minister. The Brockdale Bridge... the Bones and Vance murders... not to mention the ruckus in the West Country..."
"You--er--your--I mean to say, some of your people were--were involved in those--those things, were they?"
Fudge fixed the Prime Minister with a rather stern look. "Of course they were," he said, "Surely you've realized what's going on?"
"I..." hesitated the Prime Minister.
It was precisely this sort of behavior that made him dislike Fudge's visits so much. He was, after all, the Prime Minister and did not appreciate being made to feel like an ignorant schoolboy. But of course, it had been like this from his very first meeting with Fudge on his very first evening as Prime Minister. He remembered it as though it were yesterday and knew it would haunt him until his dying day.
He had been standing alone in this very office, savoring the triumph that was his after so many years of dreaming and scheming, when he had heard a cough behind him, just like tonight, and turned to find that ugly little portrait
talking to him, announcing that the Minister of Magic was about to arrive and introduce himself
Naturally, he had thought that the long campaign and the strain of the election had caused him to go mad. He had been utterly terrified to find a portrait talking to him, though this had been nothing to how he felt when a self-proclaimed wizard had bounced out of the fireplace and shaken his hand. He had remained speechless throughout Fudge's kindly explanation that there were witches and wizards still living in secret all over the world and his reassurances that he was not to bother his head about them as the Ministry of Magic took responsibility for the whole Wizarding community and prevented the non-magical population from getting wind of them. It was, said Fudge, a difficult job that encompassed everything from regulations on responsible use of broomsticks to keeping the dragon population under control (the Prime Minister remembered clutching the desk for support at this point). Fudge had then patted the shoulder of the still-dumbstruck Prime Minister in a fatherly sort of way.
"Not to worry," he had said, "it's odds-on you'll never see me again. I'll only bother you if there's something really serious going on our end, something that's likely to affect the Muggles--the non-magical population, I should say. Otherwise, it's live and let live. And I must say, you're taking it a lot better than your predecessor. He tried to throw me out the window, thought I was a hoax planned by the opposition."
At this, the Prime Minister had found his voice at last. "You're--you're not a hoax, then?"
It had been his last, desperate hope.
"No," said Fudge gently. "No, I'm afraid I'm not. Look."
And he had turned the Prime Minister's teacup into a gerbil.
"But," said the Prime Minister breathlessly, watching his teacup chewing on the corner of his next speech, "but why--why has nobody told me--?"
"The Minister of Magic only reveals him--or herself to the Muggle Prime Minister of the day," said Fudge, poking his wand back inside his jacket. "We find it the best way to maintain secrecy."
"But then," bleated the Prime Minister, "why hasn't a former Prime Minister warned me--?"
At this, Fudge had actually laughed.
"My dear Prime Minister, are you ever going to tell anybody?"
Still chortling, Fudge had thrown some powder into the fireplace, stepped into the emerald flames, and vanished with a whooshing sound. The Prime Minister had stood there, quite motionless, and realized that he would never, as long as he lived, dare mention this encounter to a living soul, for who in the wide world would believe him?One of the best things about the aftermath of the second task was that everybody
was very keen to hear details of what had happened down in the lake, which meant
that Ron was getting to share Harry's limelight for once. Harry noticed that Ron's
version of events changed subtly with every retelling. At first, he gave what
seemed to be the truth; it tallied with Hermione's story, anyway - Dumbledore had
put all the hostages into a bewitched sleep in Professor McGonagall's office, first
assuring them that they would be quite safe, and would awake when they were
back above the water. One week later, however, Ron was telling a thrilling tale of
kidnap in which he struggled single-handedly against fifty heavily armed
merpeople who had to beat him into submission before tying him up.
"But I had my wand hidden up my sleeve," he assured Padma Patil, who seemed to
be a lot keener on Ron now that he was getting so much attention and was making
a point of talking to him every time they passed in the corridors. "I could've taken
those mer-idiots any time I wanted."
"What were you going to do, snore at them?" said Hermione waspishly. People
had been teasing her so much about being the thing that Viktor Krum would most
miss that she was in a rather tetchy mood.
Ron's ears went red, and thereafter, he reverted to the bewitched sleep version of
events.
As they entered March the weather became drier, but cruel winds skinned their
hands and faces every time they went out onto the grounds. There were delays in
the post because the owls kept being blown off course. The brown owl that Harry
had sent to Sirius with the dates of the Hogsmeade weekend turned up at breakfast
on Friday morning with half its feathers sticking up the wrong way; Harry had no
sooner torn off Sirius's reply than it took flight, clearly afraid it was going to be
sent outside again.
Sirius's letter was almost as short as the previous one.
Be at stile at end of road out of Hogsmeade (past Dervish and
Banges) at two o'clock on Saturday afternoon. Bring as much
food as you can.
"He hasn't come back to Hogsmeade?" said Ron incredulously.
"It looks like it, doesn't it?" said Hermione.
"I can't believe him," said Harry tensely, "if he's caught. . ."
330
"Made it so far, though, hasn't he?" said Ron. "And it's not like the place is
swarming with dementors anymore."
Harry folded up the letter, thinking. If he was honest with himself, he really
wanted to see Sirius again. He therefore approached the final lesson of the
afternoon - double Potions - feeling considerably more cheerful than he usually
did when descending the steps to the dungeons.
Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle were standing in a huddle outside the classroom door
with Pansy Parkinson's gang of Slytherin girls. All of them were looking at
something Harry couldn't see and sniggering heartily. Pansys pug-like face peered
excitedly around Goyle's broad back as Harry, Ron, and Hermione approached.
"There they are, there they are!" she giggled, and the knot of Slytherins broke
apart. Harry saw that Pansy had a magazine in her hands - Witch Weekly. The
moving picture on the front showed a curly-haired witch who was smiling toothily
and pointing at a large sponge cake with her wand.
"You might find something to interest you in there, Granger!" Pansy said loudly,
and she threw the magazine at Hermione, who caught it, looking startled. At that
moment, the dungeon door opened, and Snape beckoned them all inside.
Hermione, Harry, and Ron headed for a table at the back of the dungeon as usual.
Once Snape had turned his back on them to write up the ingredients of todays
potion on the blackboard, Hermione hastily rifled through the magazine under the
desk. At last, in the center pages, Hermione found what they were looking for.
Harry and Ron leaned in closer. A color photograph of Harry headed a short piece
entitled:
Harry Potter's Secret Heartache
A boy like no other, perhaps - yet a boy suffering all the usual pangs of
adolescence, writes Rita Skeeter. Deprived of love since the tragic demise
of his parents, fourteen-year-old Harry Potter thought he had found solace in his
steady girlfriend at Hogwarts, Muggle-born Hermione Granger. Little did he know
that he would shortly be suffering yet another emotional blow in a life already
littered with personal loss.
