
401
"Feeling all right. Harry?" Bagman asked as they went down the stone steps onto
the grounds. "Confident?"
"I'm okay," said Harry. It was sort of true; he was nervous, but he kept running
over all the hexes and spells he had been practicing in his mind as they walked,
and the knowledge that he could remember them all made him feel better.
They walked onto the Quidditch field, which was now completely unrecognizable.
A twenty-foot-high hedge ran all the way around the edge of it. There was a gap
right in front of them: the entrance to the vast maze. The passage beyond it looked
dark and creepy.
Five minutes later, the stands had begun to fill; the air was full of excited voices
and the rumbling of feet as the hundreds of students filed into their seats. The sky
was a deep, clear blue now, and the first stars were starting to appear. Hagrid,
Professor Moody, Professor McGonagall, and Professor Flitwick came walking
into the stadium and approached Bagman and the champions. They were wearing
large, red, luminous stars on their hats, all except Hagrid, who had his on the back
of his moleskin vest.
"We are going to be patrolling the outside of the maze," said Professor
McGonagall to the champions. "If you get into difficulty, and wish to be rescued,
send red sparks into the air, and one of us will come and get you, do you
understand?"
The champions nodded.
"Off you go, then!" said Bagman brightly to the four patrollers.
"Good luck. Harry," Hagrid whispered, and the four of them walked away in
different directions, to station themselves around the maze. Bagman now pointed
his wand at his throat, muttered, "Sonorus," and his magically magnified voice
echoed into the stands.
"Ladies and gentlemen, the third and final task of the Triwizard Tournament is
about to begin! Let me remind you how the points currently stand! Tied in first
place, with eighty-five points each - Mr. Cedric Diggory and Mr. Harry Potter,
both of Hogwarts School!" The cheers and applause sent birds from the Forbidden
Forest fluttering into the darkening sky. "In second place, with eighty points - Mr.
Viktor Krum, of Durmstrang Institute!" More applause. "And in third place - Miss
Fleur Delacour, of Beauxbatons Academy!"
Harry could just make out Mrs. Weasley, Bill, Ron, and Hermione applauding
Fleur politely, halfway up the stands. He waved up at them, and they waved back,
beaming at him.
"So ... on my whistle, Harry and Cedric!" said Bagman. "Three - two - one -"
He gave a short blast on his whistle, and Harry and Cedric hurried forward into the
402
maze.
The towering hedges cast black shadows across the path, and, whether because
they were so tall and thick or because they had been enchanted, the sound of the
surrounding crowd was silenced the moment they entered the maze. Harry felt
almost as though he were underwater again. He pulled out his wand, muttered,
"Lumos," and heard Cedric do the same just behind him.
After about fifty yards, they reached a fork. They looked at each other.
"See you," Harry said, and he took the left one, while Cedric took the right.
Harry heard Bagman's whistle for the second time. Krum had entered the maze.
Harry sped up. His chosen path seemed completely deserted. He turned right, and
hurried on, holding his wand high over his head, trying to see as far ahead as
possible. Still, there was nothing in sight.
Bagman's whistle blew in the distance for the third time. All of the champions
were now inside.
Harry kept looking behind him. The old feeling that he was being watched was
upon him. The maze was growing darker with every passing minute as the sky
overhead deepened to navy. He reached a second fork.
"Point Me," he whispered to his wand, holding it flat in his palm.
The wand spun around once and pointed toward his right, into solid hedge. That
way was north, and he knew that he needed to go northwest for the center of the
maze. The best he could do was to take the left fork and go right again as soon as
possible.
The path ahead was empty too, and when Harry reached a right turn and took it, he
again found his way unblocked. Harry didn't know why, but the lack of obstacles
was unnerving him. Surely he should have met something by now? It felt as
though the maze were luring him into a false sense of security. Then he heard
movement right behind him. He held out his wand, ready to attack, but its beam
fell only upon Cedric, who had just hurried out of a path on the right-hand side.
Cedric looked severely shaken. The sleeve of his robe was smoking.
"Hagrid's Blast-Ended Skrewts!" he hissed. "They're enormous - I only just got
away!"
He shook his head and dived out of sight, along another path. Keen to put plenty
of distance between himself and the skrewts, Harry hurried off again. Then, as he
turned a corner, he saw ... a dementor gliding toward him. Twelve feet tall, its face
hidden by its hood, its rotting, scabbed hands outstretched, it advanced, sensing its
way blindly toward him. Harry could hear its rattling breath; he felt clammy
coldness stealing over him, but knew what he had to do....
He summoned the happiest thought he could, concentrated with all his might on
403
the thought of getting out of the maze and celebrating with Ron and Hermione,
raised his wand, and cried, "Expecto Patronum!"
A silver stag erupted from the end of Harry's wand and galloped toward the
dementor, which fell back and tripped over the hem of its robes. . . . Harry had
never seen a dementor stumble.
"Hang on!" he shouted, advancing in the wake of his silver Patronus, "You're a
boggart! Riddikulus!"
There was a loud crack, and the shape-shifter exploded in a wisp of smoke. The
silver stag faded from sight. Harry wished it could have stayed, he could have used
some company...but he moved on, quickly and quietly as possible, listening hard,
his wand held high once more.
Left ... right... left again . . . Twice he found himself facing dead ends. He did the
Four-Point Spell again and found that he was going too far east. He turned back,
took a right turn, and saw an odd golden mist floating ahead of him.
Harry approached it cautiously, pointing the wand's beam at it. This looked like
some kind of enchantment. He wondered whether he might be able to blast it out
of the way.
"Reducio!" he said.
The spell shot straight through the mist, leaving it intact. He supposed he should
have known better; the Reductor Curse was for solid objects. What would happen
if he walked through the mist? Was it worth chancing it, or should he double
back?
He was still hesitating when a scream shattered the silence.
"Fleur?" Harry yelled.
There was silence. He stared all around him. What had happened to her? Her
scream seemed to have come from somewhere ahead. He took a deep breath and
ran through the enchanted mist.
The world turned upside down. Harry was hanging from the ground, with his hair
on end, his glasses dangling off his nose, threatening to fall into the bottomless
sky. He clutched them to the end of his nose and hung there, terrified. It felt as
though his feet were glued to the grass, which had now become the ceiling. Below
him the dark, star-spangled heavens stretched endlessly. He felt as though if he
tried to move one of his feet, he would fall away from the earth completely.
Think, he told himself, as all the blood rushed to his head, think. . .
But not one of the spells he had practiced had been designed to combat a sudden
reversal of ground and sky. Did he dare move his foot? He could hear the blood
pounding in his ears. He had two choices - try and move, or send up red sparks,
404
and get rescued and disqualified from the task.
He shut his eyes, so he wouldn't be able to see the view of endless space below
him, and pulled his right foot as hard as he could away from the grassy ceiling.
Immediately, the world righted itself. Harry fell forward onto his knees onto the
wonderfully solid ground. He felt temporarily limp with shock. He took a deep,
steadying breath, then got up again and hurried forward, looking back over his
shoulder as he ran away from the golden mist, which twinkled innocently at him in
the moonlight.
He paused at a junction of two paths and looked around for some sign of Fleur. He
was sure it had been she who had screamed. What had she met? Was she all right?
There was no sign of red sparks - did that mean she had got herself out of trouble,
or was she in such trouble that she couldn't reach her wand? Harry took the right
fork with a feeling of increasing unease . . . but at the same time, he couldn't help
thinking. One champion down. . .
The cup was somewhere close by, and it sounded as though Fleur was no longer in
the running. He'd got this far, hadn't he? What if he actually managed to win?
Fleetingly, and for the first time since he'd found himself champion, he saw again
that image of himself, raising the Triwizard Cup in front of the rest of the school. .
. .
He met nothing for ten minutes, but kept running into dead ends. Twice he took
the same wrong turning. Finally, he found a new route and started to jog along it,
his wandlight waving, making his shadow flicker and distort on the hedge walls.
Then he rounded another corner and found himself facing a Blast-Ended Skrewt.
Cedric was right - it was enormous. Ten feet long, it looked more like a giant
scorpion than anything. Its long sting was curled over its back. Its thick armor
glinted in the light from Harry's wand, which he pointed at it.
"Stupefy!"
The spell hit the skrewt's armor and rebounded; Harry ducked just in time, but
could smell burning hair; it had singed the top of his head. The skrewt issued a
blast of fire from its end and flew forward toward him.
"Impedimenta!" Harry yelled. The spell hit the skrewt's armor again and
ricocheted off; Harry staggered back a few paces and fell over.
"IMPEDIMENTA!"
The skrewt was inches from him when it froze - he had managed to hit it on its
fleshy, shell-less underside. Panting, Harry pushed himself away from it and ran,
hard, in the opposite direction - the Impediment Curse was not permanent; the
skrewt would be regaining the use of its legs at any moment.
He took a left path and hit a dead end, a right, and hit another; forcing himself to
405
stop, heart hammering, he performed the Four-Point Spell again, backtracked, and
chose a path that would take him northwest.
He had been hurrying along the new path for a few minutes, when he heard
something in the path running parallel to his own that made him stop dead.
"What are you doing?" yelled Cedric's voice. "What the hell d'you think you're
doing?"
And then Harry heard Krum's voice.
"Crucio!"
The air was suddenly full of Cedric's yells. Horrified, Harry began sprinting up his
path, trying to find a way into Cedric's. When none appeared, he tried the
Reductor Curse again. It wasn't very effective, but it burned a small hole in the
hedge through which Harry forced his leg, kicking at the thick brambles and
branches until they broke and made an opening; he struggled through it, tearing his
robes, and looking to his right, saw Cedric jerking and twitching on the ground,
Krum standing over him.
Harry pulled himself up and pointed his wand at Krum just as Krum looked up.
Krum turned and began to run.
"Stupefy!" Harry yelled.
The spell hit Krum in the back; he stopped dead in his tracks, fell forward, and lay
motionless, facedown in the grass. Harry-dashed over to Cedric, who had stopped
twitching and was lying there panting, his hands over his face.
"Are you all right?" Harry said roughly, grabbing Cedric's arm.
"Yeah," panted Cedric. "Yeah ... I don't believe it... he crept up behind me. ... I
heard him, I turned around, and he had his wand on me. . . ."
Cedric got up. He was still shaking. He and Harry looked down at Krum.
"I can't believe this ... I thought he was all right," Harry said, staring at Krum.
"So did I," said Cedric.
"Did you hear Fleur scream earlier?" said Harry.
"Yeah," said Cedric. "You don't think Krum got her too?"
"I don't know," said Harry slowly.
"Should we leave him here?" Cedric muttered.
"No," said Harry. "I reckon we should send up red sparks. Someone'll come and
collect him . . . otherwise he'll probably be eaten by a skrewt."
406
"He'd deserve it," Cedric muttered, but all the same, he raised his wand and shot a
shower of red sparks into the air, which hovered high above Krum, marking the
spot where he lay.
Harry and Cedric stood there in the darkness for a moment, looking around them.
Then Cedric said, "Well... I s'pose we'd better go on. . . ."
"What?" said Harry. "Oh . . . yeah . . . right. . ."
It was an odd moment. He and Cedric had been briefly united against Krum - now
the fact that they were opponents came back to Harry. The two of them proceeded
up the dark path without speaking, then Harry turned left, and Cedric right.
Cedric's footsteps soon died away.
Harry moved on, continuing to use the Four-Point Spell, making sure he was
moving in the right direction. It was between him and Cedric now. His desire to
reach the cup first was now burning stronger than ever, but he could hardly believe
what he'd just seen Krum do. The use of an Unforgivable Curse on a fellow human
being meant a life term in Azkaban, that was what Moody had told them. Krum
surely couldn't have wanted the Triwizard Cup that badly....Harry sped up.
Every so often he hit more dead ends, but the increasing darkness made him feel
sure he was getting near the heart of the maze. Then, as he strode down a long,
straight path, he saw movement once again, and his beam of wandlight hit an
extraordinary creature, one which he had only seen in picture form, in his Monster
Book of Monsters.
It was a sphinx. It had the body of an over-large lion: great clawed paws and a
long yellowish tail ending in a brown tuft. Its head, however, was that of a woman.
She turned her long, almond-shaped eyes upon Harry as he approached. He raised
his wand, hesitating. She was not crouching as if to spring, but pacing from side to
side of the path, blocking his progress. Then she spoke, in a deep, hoarse voice.
"You are very near your goal. The quickest way is past me."
"So ... so will you move, please?" said Harry, knowing what the answer was going
to be.
"No," she said, continuing to pace. "Not unless you can answer my riddle. Answer
on your first guess - I let you pass. Answer wrongly - I attack. Remain silent - I
will let you walk away from me unscathed."
Harry's stomach slipped several notches. It was Hermione who was good at this
sort of thing, not him. He weighed his chances. If the riddle was too hard, he could
keep silent, get away from the sphinx unharmed, and try and find an alternative
route to the center.
"Okay," he said. "Can I hear the riddle?"
The sphinx sat down upon her hind legs, in the very middle of the path, and
407
recited:
"First think of the person who lives in disguise,
Who deals in secrets and tells naught but lies.
Next, tell me what's always the last thing to mend,
The middle of middle and end of the end?
And finally give me the sound often heard
During the search for a hard-to-find word.
Now string them together, and answer me this,
Which creature would you be unwilling to kiss?"
Harry gaped at her.
"Could I have it again . . . more slowly?" he asked tentatively. She blinked at him,
smiled, and repeated the poem. "All the clues add up to a creature I wouldn't want
to kiss?" Harry asked.
She merely smiled her mysterious smile. Harry took that for a "yes." Harry cast his
mind around. There were plenty of animals he wouldn't want to kiss; his
immediate thought was a Blast-Ended Skrewt, but something told him that wasn't
the answer. He'd have to try and work out the clues. . . .
"A person in disguise," Harry muttered, staring at her, "who lies ... er ... that'd be a
- an impostor. No, that's not my guess! A - a spy? I'll come back to that. . . could
you give me the next clue again, please?"
She repeated the next lines of the poem.
"'The last thing to mend,'" Harry repeated. "Er ... no idea . . . 'middle of middle' . . .
could I have the last bit again?"
She gave him the last four lines.
"'The sound often heard during the search for a hard-to-find word,'" said Harry.
"Er . . . that'd be ... er ... hang on - 'er'! Er's a sound!"
The sphinx smiled at him.
"Spy ... er ... spy ... er ..." said Harry, pacing up and down. "A creature I wouldn't
want to kiss . . . a spider!"
The sphinx smiled more broadly. She got up, stretched her front legs, and then
moved aside for him to pass.
"Thanks!" said Harry, and, amazed at his own brilliance, he dashed forward.
408
He had to be close now, he had to be. ... His wand was telling him he was bang on
course; as long as he didn't meet anything too horrible, he might have a chance. . .
.
Harry broke into a run. He had a choice of paths up ahead. "Point Me!" he
whispered again to his wand, and it spun around and pointed him to the right-hand
one. He dashed up this one and saw light ahead.
The Triwizard Cup was gleaming on a plinth a hundred yards away. Suddenly a
dark figure hurtled out onto the path in front of him.
Cedric was going to get there first. Cedric was sprinting as fast as he could toward
the cup, and Harry knew he would never catch up, Cedric was much taller, had
much longer legs -
Then Harry saw something immense over a hedge to his left, moving quickly
along a path that intersected with his own; it was moving so fast Cedric was about
to run into it, and Cedric, his eyes on the cup, had not seen it -
"Cedric!" Harry bellowed. "On your left!"
Cedric looked around just in time to hurl himself past the thing and avoid colliding
with it, but in his haste, he tripped. Harry saw Cedric's wand fly out of his hand as
a gigantic spider stepped into the path and began to bear down upon Cedric.
"Stupefy!" Harry yelled; the spell hit the spider's gigantic, hairy black body, but
for all the good it did, he might as well have thrown a stone at it; the spider jerked,
scuttled around, and ran at Harry instead.
"Stupefy! Impedimenta! Stupefy!"
But it was no use - the spider was either so large, or so magical, that the spells
were doing no more than aggravating it. Harry had one horrifying glimpse of eight
shining black eyes and razor-sharp pincers before it was upon him.
He was lifted into the air in its front legs; struggling madly, he tried to kick it; his
leg connected with the pincers and next moment he was in excruciating pain. He
could hear Cedric yelling "Stupefy!" too, but his spell had no more effect than
Harry's - Harry raised his wand as the spider opened its pincers once more and
shouted "Expelliarmus!"
It worked - the Disarming Spell made the spider drop him, but that meant that
Harry fell twelve feet onto his already injured leg, which crumpled beneath him.
Without pausing to think, he aimed high at the spider's underbelly, as he had done
with the skrewt, and shouted "Stupefy!''just as Cedric yelled the same thing.
The two spells combined did what one alone had not: The spider keeled over
sideways, flattening a nearby hedge, and strewing the path with a tangle of hairy
legs.
409
"Harry!" he heard Cedric shouting. "You all right? Did it fall on you?"
"No," Harry called back, panting. He looked down at his leg. It was bleeding
freely. He could see some sort of thick, gluey secretion from the spider's pincers
on his torn robes. He tried to get up, but his leg was shaking badly and did not
want to support his weight. He leaned against the hedge, gasping for breath, and
looked around.
Cedric was standing feet from the Triwizard Cup, which was gleaming behind
him.
"Take it, then," Harry panted to Cedric. "Go on, take it. You're there."
But Cedric didn't move. He merely stood there, looking at Harry. Then he turned
to stare at the cup. Harry saw the longing expression on his face in its golden light.
Cedric looked around at Harry again, who was now holding onto the hedge to
support himself. Cedric took a deep breath.
"You take it. You should win. That's twice you've saved my neck in here."
"That's not how it's supposed to work," Harry said. He felt angry; his leg was very
painful, he was aching all over from trying to throw off the spider, and after all his
efforts, Cedric had beaten him to it, just as he'd beaten Harry to ask Cho to the
ball. "The one who reaches the cup first gets the points. That's you. I'm telling you,
I'm not going to win any races on this leg."
Cedric took a few paces nearer to the Stunned spider, away from the cup, shaking
his head.
"No," he said.
"Stop being noble," said Harry irritably. "Just take it, then we can get out of here."
Cedric watched Harry steadying himself, holding tight to the hedge.
"You told me about the dragons," Cedric said. "I would've gone down in the first
task if you hadn't told me what was coming."
"I had help on that too," Harry snapped, trying to mop up his bloody leg with his
robes. "You helped me with the egg - we're square."
"I had help on the egg in the first place," said Cedric.
"We're still square," said Harry, testing his leg gingerly; it shook violently as he
put weight on it; he had sprained his ankle when the spider had dropped him.
"You should've got more points on the second task," said Cedric mulishly. "You
stayed behind to get all the hostages. I should've done that."
"I was the only one who was thick enough to take that song seriously!" said Harry
bitterly. "Just take the cup!"
410
"No," said Cedric.
He stepped over the spider's tangled legs to join Harry, who stared at him. Cedric
was serious. He was walking away from the sort of glory Hufflepuff House hadn't
had in centuries.
"Go on," Cedric said. He looked as though this was costing him every ounce of
resolution he had, but his face was set, his arms were folded, he seemed decided.
Harry looked from Cedric to the cup. For one shining moment, he saw himself
emerging from the maze, holding it. He saw himself holding the Triwizard Cup
aloft, heard the roar of the crowd, saw Cho's face shining with admiration, more
clearly than he had ever seen it before . . . and then the picture faded, and he found
himself staring at Cedric's shadowy, stubborn face.
"Both of us," Harry said.
"What?"
"We'll take it at the same time. It's still a Hogwarts victory. We'll tie for it."
Cedric stared at Harry. He unfolded his arms.
"You - you sure?"
"Yeah," said Harry. "Yeah . . . we've helped each other out, haven't we? We both
got here. Let's just take it together."
For a moment, Cedric looked as though he couldn't believe his ears; then his face
split in a grin.
"You're on," he said. "Come here."
He grabbed Harrys arm below the shoulder and helped Harry limp toward the
plinth where the cup stood. When they had reached it, they both held a hand out
over one of the cup's gleaming handles.
"On three, right?" said Harry. "One - two - three -"
He and Cedric both grasped a handle.
Instantly, Harry felt a jerk somewhere behind his navel. His feet had left the
ground. He could not unclench the hand holding the Triwizard Cup; it was pulling
him onward in a howl of wind and swirling color, Cedric at his side.
