Harry's heart leapt. So did the witch; a load of fingernails cascaded
down over her feet and she cursed as the massive form of Hagrid, the
Hogwarts gamekeeper, came striding toward them, beetle-black eyes
flashing over his great bristling beard.Deaf to Harry's stammers, Lockhart swept him down a corridor
lined with staring students and up a staircase.
"Let me just say that handing out signed pictures at this stage of
your career isn't sensible - looks a tad bigheaded, Harry, to be
frank. There may well come a time when, like me, you'll need to
keep a stack handy wherever you go, but" - he gave a little chor
tle - "I don't think you're quite there yet."
They had reached Lockhart's classroom and he let Harry go at
98
last. Harry yanked his robes straight and headed for a seat at the very
back of the class, where he busied himself with piling all seven of
Lockhart's books in front of him, so that he could avoid looking at the
real thing.Three days later, the Dursleys were showing no sign of relenting, and
Harry couldn't see any way out of his situation. He lay on his bed
watching the sun sinking behind the bars on the window and wondered
miserably what was going to happen to him.
What was the good of magicking himself out of his room if Hogwarts
would expel him for doing it? Yet life at Privet Drive had reached an
all-time low. Now that the Dursleys knew they weren't going to wake
up as fruit bats, he had lost his only weapon. Dobby might have saved
Harry from horrible happenings at Hogwarts, but the way things were
going, he'd probably starve to death anyway.
The cat-flap rattled and Aunt Petunias hand appeared, pushing a bowl
of canned soup into the room. Harry, whose insides were aching with
hunger, jumped off his bed and seized it. The soup was stone-cold, but
he drank half of it in one gulp. Then he crossed the room to Hedwig's
cage and tipped the soggy vegetables at the bottom of the bowl into
her empty food tray. She ruffled her feathers and gave him a look of
deep disgust.
"It's no good turning your beak up at it - that's all we've got," said
Harry grimly.
He put the empty bowl back on the floor next to the cat-flap and lay
back down on the bed, somehow even hungrier than he had been
before the soup.
Supposing he was still alive in another four weeks, what would happen
if he didn't turn up at Hogwarts? Would someone be sent to see why
he hadn't come back? Would they be able to make the Dursleys let
him go?
The room was growing dark. Exhausted, stomach rumbling, mind
spinning over the same unanswerable questions, Harry fell into an
uneasy sleep.
“It’s not right,” said Petunia, but her eyes had followed the flower’s flight to
the ground and lingered upon it. “How do you do it?” she added, and there was
definite longing in her voice.
“It’s obvious, isn’t it?” Snape could no longer contain himself, but had
jumped out from behind the bushes. Petunia shrieked and ran backward toward
the swings, but Lily, though clearly startled, remained where she was.
Snape seemed to regret his appearance. A dull flush of color mounted the sallow
cheeks as he looked at Lily.
“What’s obvious?” asked Lily.
Snape had an air of nervous excitement. With a glance at the distant Petunia,
now hovering beside the swings, he lowered his voice and said, “I know
what you are.”
“What do you mean?”
“You’re. . . you’re a witch,” whispered Snape.
She looked affronted.
“That’s not a very nice thing to say to somebody!”
She turned, nose in the air, and marched off toward her sister.
“No!” said Snape. He was highly colored now, and Harry wondered why
he did not take off the ridiculously large coat, unless it was because he did
562 CHAPTER 33. THE PRINCE’S TALE
not want to reveal the smock beneath it. He flapped after the girls, looking
ludicrously batlike, like his older self.
The sisters considered him, united in disapproval, both holding on to one of
the swing poles, as though it was the safe place in tag.
“You are,” said Snape to Lily. “You are a witch. I’ve been watching you for a
while. But there’s nothing wrong with that. My mum’s one, and I’m a wizard.”
Petunia’s laugh was like cold water.
“Wizard!” she shrieked, her courage returned now that she had recovered
from the shock of his unexpected appearance. “I know who you are. You’re that
Snape boy! They live down Spinner’s End by the river,” she told Lily, and it was
evident from her tone that she considered the address a poor recommendation.
“Why have you been spying on us?”
“Haven’t been spying,” said Snape, hot and uncomfortable and dirty-haired
in the bright sunlight. “Wouldn’t spy on you, anyway,” he added spitefully,
“you’re a Muggle.”
Though Petunia evidently did not understand the word, she could hardly
mistake the tone.
“Lily, come on, we’re leaving!” she said shrilly. Lily obeyed her sister at once,
glaring at Snape as she left. He stood watching them as they marched through
the playground gate, and Harry, the only one left to observe him, recognized
Snape’s bitter disappointment, and understood that Snape had been planning
this moment for a while, and that it had all gone wrong. . .
The scene dissolved, and before Harry knew it, re-formed around him. He
was now in a small thicket of trees. He could see a sunlit river glittering
through their trunks. The shadows cast by the trees made a basin of cool green
shade. Two children sat facing each other, cross-legged on the ground. Snape
had removed his coat now; his odd smock looked less peculiar in the half light.
“. . . and the Ministry can punish you if you do magic outside school, you get
letters.”
“But I have done magic outside school!”
“We’re all right. We haven’t got wands yet. They let you off when you’re a
563
kid and you can’t help it. But once you’re eleven,” he nodded importantly, “and
they start training you, then you’ve got to go careful.”
There was a little silence. Lily had picked up a fallen twig and twirled it in
the air, and Harry knew that she was imagining sparks trailing from it. Then
she dropped the twig, leaned in toward the boy, and said, “It is real, isn’t it?
It’s not a joke? Petunia says you’re lying to me. Petunia says there isn’t a
Hogwarts. It is real, isn’t it?”
“It’s real for us,” said Snape. “Not for her. But we’ll get the letter, you and
me.”
“Really?” whispered Lily.
“Definitely,” said Snape, and even with his poorly cut hair and his odd
clothes, he struck an oddly impressive figure sprawled in front of her, brimful
of confidence in his destiny.
