“No Harry,” said Hermione, “we should wait. For one, we do need everyone to be in one place, and the Halloween Feast is the closest. Even now, for breakfast, not everyone’s down here. Some are early for class, others are sleeping, and teachers are spread all over the place. Also, we need time to form a plan, and we need to wait a while so that the ministry’s security isn’t as tight around Sirius and Lupin. After a few days of being in Azkaban, your mind starts to go, and you don’t need guards anymore.” Harry was about to argue, but he thought better of himself, and knew that she was right.“Yes Harry,” said Professor McGonagall, she put her glasses back on, “It was only a matter of time before the urge overcame you. As for you two though (she pointed to Ron and Hermione) I did not expect you at all. I am assuming that you are following Mr. Potter?”
“Yes, I thought it could help me for the O.W.L.s,” said Hermione.
“And I thought it’d be great to be able to do something my brothers, or my sister, couldn’t,” said Ron. Professor McGonagall, however, looked furious at them.
“Becoming an Animagus is not something to be taken lightly you two!” she scolded Ron and Hermione. “It should not be utilized to help you pass a test, or to show off! It is magic at its finest, its most difficult! It is not to be taken lightly at all!” she glared at them both, Hermione looked shocked, she was rarely ever talked to harshly, much less scolded, by a teacher. Ron, however, was used to this sort of thing, and looked unaffected.
“Well, professor, I think it would help me a lot to have some others work on this project along with me,” said Harry, trying to save Ron and Hermione. McGonagall appeared to have accepted that.
“Yes, I suppose it would help you, Potter. Having two others to help you along would be very valuable. Yes, that is a good idea,” she said to all three of them. “Meet me here at seven tonight, we will begin your training. It will be long and vigorous work, and if any of you want to drop out of it, I will not be surprised. Many wizards, while extremely wise in one or more other areas, are unable to become Animagi.”
81
“We know professor, but we won’t give up,” said Harry. Professor McGonagall looked pleased
“Alright then, don’t be late! Now go, I’ve got another class coming in!” she shooed them off as her new class filed their way inside. Harry saw that they were the Slytherins. Hoping to leave before Malfoy came in, Harry sprinted out the door. Unfortunately, he crashed into someone.
“Watch it Potter! You’re like a brick… only the brick has more brains,” said Malfoy after Harry bumped into him.
“Move it Malfoy,” said Harry disdainfully.
“What are you doing, staying late Potter? Catching up on some work? Begging McGonagall to give you a better grade?”
“Sorry Malfoy, already got good grades. I didn’t get this prefect badge by buying one with money from my rich father,” said Harry as he slid past Malfoy, and to his next class.
Harry walked triumphantly to Defense Against the Dark Arts with Ron and Hermione, each looking forward to their Animagus lessons. The class started going by quickly, with everyone finishing up perfecting their shield spells. By the middle of class, Harry could produce a shield that deflected all the hexes that Mrs. Figg tested on them. Once each of them had been tested and passed, she made an announcement.
“Everyone, I have an announcement about… your learning schedule.” All the students in the class looked at her with interest. “I know that we’re supposed to be moving on to more advanced shields now, but Dumbledore had just informed me that he wants to go a bit more… ahead.” Now everyone in the class was gazing right at Mrs. Figg, wondering what they were going to do next.
“How many of you have ever felt extreme pain?” she asked the class. Everyone started at her confusedly, but a few people put their hands in the air, in fact, almost everyone did, including Harry. He had his bones grown overnight, had his scar burn, and been hit by the Cruciatus Curse twice.
“Now, among you that have your hand up, how man have felt pain so extreme that you wanted it to all just end, just to die?” Everyone was looking at her very seriously now, and everyone that had their hand up, put it down… except for Harry. Mrs. Figg looked at him.
“Mr. Potter, you are the only one in this class… this entire school perhaps who can answer this question. What was it like to have the Cruciatus Curse put on you?” Now all the eyes shifted to Harry. He was feeling very nervous. He had tried to block those memories out of his mind and now that they were flooding back, Harry felt like he was being put through the curse all over again.
64He reached up just in time to grab onto the very end of the bristles. The broom was holding him up, but it took a lot of strength to hold on. Harry’s fingers started to hurt from holding on so hard to something so small. He looked up, and saw that Malfoy was still laughing, and that the Snitch was still next to him, ready to be plucked.
Malfoy then seemed to gain control of himself, and turned towards the Snitch.
“So much for me losing, eh Potter?” he snarled, as he moved in to get it. Harry gritted his teeth, he hated Malfoy…. Just then, a miracle happened. A Bludger came out of nowhere, and hit Malfoy right in the back of the head. Harry saw Malfoy’s eyes bulge and spit and blood fly out of his mouth from the force of the impact. He fell of his broom as well, but did not manage to grab a hold of anything like Harry did, he just fell twenty feet, right onto the sandy ground.Harry remained kneeling at Snape’s side, simply staring down at
him, until quite suddenly a high, cold voice spoke so close to
them that Harry jumped on his feet, the flask gripped tightly in
his hands, thinking that Voldemort had reentered the room.
Voldemort’s voice reverberated from the walls and floor, and Harry realized
that he was talking to Hogwarts and to all the surrounding area, that the
residents of Hogsmeade and all those still fighting in the castle would hear
him as clearly as if he stood beside them, his breath on the back of their necks,
a deathblow away.
“You have fought,” said the high, cold voice, “valiantly. Lord Voldemort
knows how to value bravery.
“Yet you have sustained heavy losses. If you continue to resist me, you will
all die, one by one. I do not wish this to happen. Every drop of magical blood
spilled is a loss and a waste.
“Lord Voldemort is merciful. I command my forces to retreat immediately.
“You have one hour. Dispose of your dead with dignity. Treat your injured.
“I speak now, Harry Potter, directly to you. You have permitted your friends
to die for you rather than face me yourself. I shall wait for one hour in the
Forbidden Forest. If, at the end of that hour, you have not come to me, have not
557
558 CHAPTER 33. THE PRINCE’S TALE
given yourself up, then battle recommences. This time, I shall enter the fray
myself, Harry Potter, and I shall find you, and I shall punish every last man,
woman, and child who has tried to conceal you from me. One hour.”
Both Ron and Hermione shook their heads frantically, looking at Harry.
“Don’t listen to him,” said Ron.
“It’ll be all right,” said Hermione wildly. “Let’s—let’s get back to the castle,
if he’s gone to the forest we’ll need to think of a new plan—”
She glanced at Snape’s body, then hurried back to the tunnel entrance. Ron
followed her. Harry gathered up the Invisibility Cloak, then looked down at
Snape. He did not know what to feel, except shock at the way Snape had been
killed, and the reason for which it had been done. . .
They crawled back through the tunnel, none of them talking, and Harry
wondered whether Ron and Hermione could still hear Voldemort ringing in
their heads as he could.
You have permitted your friends to die for you rather than face me yourself.
I shall wait for one hour in the Forbidden Forest. . . One hour. . .
Small bundles seemed to litter the lawn at the front of the castle (?). It
could only be an hour or so from dawn, yet it was pitch-black. The three of
them hurried toward the stone steps. A lone dog, the size of a small boat,
lay abandoned in front of them. There was no other sign of Grawp or of his
attacker.
The castle was unnaturally silent. There were no flashes of light now, no
bangs or screams or shouts. The flagstones of the deserted entrance hall were
stained with blood. Emeralds were still scattered all over the floor, along with
pieces of marble and splintered wood. Part of the banisters had been blown
away.
“Where is everyone?” whispered Hermione.
Ron led the way to the Great Hall. Harry stopped in the doorway.
The House tables were gone and the room was crowded. The survivors
stood in groups, their arms around each other’s necks. The injured were being
treated upon the raised platform by Madam Pomfrey and a group of helpers.
559
Firenze was amongst the injured; his flank poured blood and he shook where
he lay, unable to stand.
The dead lay in a row in the middle of the Hall. Harry could not see Fred’s
body, because his family surrounded him. George was kneeling at his head;
Mrs. Weasley was lying across Fred’s chest, her body shaking. Mr. Weasley
stroking her hair while tears cascaded down his cheeks.
Without a word to Harry, Ron and Hermione walked away. Harry saw
Hermione approach Ginny, whose face was swollen and blotchy, and hug her.
Ron joined Bill, Fleur, and Percy, who flung an arm around Ron’s shoulders. As
Ginny and Hermione moved closer to the rest of the family, Harry had a clear
view of the bodies lying next to Fred. Remus and Tonks, pale and still and
peaceful-looking, apparently asleep beneath the dark, enchanted ceiling.
The Great Hall seemed to fly away, become smaller, shrink, as Harry reeled
backward from the doorway. He could not draw breath. He could not bear to
look at any of the other bodies, to see who else had died for him. He could not
bear to join the Weasleys, could not look into their eyes, when if he had given
himself up in the first place, Fred might never have died. . .
He turned away and ran up the marble staircase. Lupin, Tonks. . .He yearned
not to feel. . .He wished he could rip out his heart, his innards, everything that
was screaming inside him. . .
The castle was completely empty; even the ghosts seemed to have joined
the mass mourning in the Great Hall. Harry ran without stopping, clutching
the crystal flask of Snape’s last thoughts, and he did not slow down until he
reached the stone gargoyle guarding the headmaster’s office.
“Password?”
“Dumbledore!” said Harry without thinking, because it was he whom he
yearned to see, and to his surprise the gargoyle slid aside revealing the spiral
staircase behind.
But when Harry burst into the circular office he found a change. The portraits
that hung all around the walls were empty. Not a single headmaster or
headmistress remained to see him; all, it seemed, had flitted away, charging
560 CHAPTER 33. THE PRINCE’S TALE
through the paintings that lined the castle so that they could have a clear view
of what was going on.
Harry glanced hopelessly at Dumbledore’s deserted frame, which hung directly
behind the headmaster’s chair, then turned his back on it. The stone
Pensieve lay in the cabinet where it had always been. Harry heaved it onto the
desk and poured Snape’s memories into the wide basin with its runic markings
around the edge. To escape into someone else’s head would be a blessed
relief. . . Nothing that even Snape had left him could be worse than his own
thoughts. The memories swirled, silver white and strange, and without hesitating,
with a feeling of reckless abandonment, as though this would assuage
his torturing grief, Harry dived.
He fell headlong into sunlight, and his feet found warm ground. When he
straightened up, he saw that he was in a nearly deserted playground. A single
huge chimney dominated the distant skyline. Two girls were swinging backward
and forward, and a skinny boy was watching them from behind a clump
of bushes. His black hair was overlong and his clothes were so mismatched
that it looked deliberate: too short jeans, a shabby, overlarge coat that might
have belonged to a grown man, an odd smocklike shirt.
Harry moved closer to the boy. Snape looked no more than nine or ten years
old, sallow, small, stringy. There was undisguised greed in his thin face as
he watched the younger of the two girls swinging higher and higher than her
sister.
“Lily, don’t do it!” shrieked the elder of the two.
But the girl had let go of the swing at the very height of its arc and flown
into the air, quite literally flown, launched herself skyward with a great shout
of laughter, and instead of crumpling on the playground asphalt, she soared
like a trapeze artist through the air, staying up far too long, landing far too
lightly.
“Mummy told you not to!”
Petunia stopped her swing by dragging the heels of her sandals on the
ground, making a crunching, grinding sound, then leapt up, hands on hips.
561
“Mummy said you weren’t allowed, Lily!”
“But I’m fine,” said Lily, still giggling. “Tuney, look at this. Watch what I
can do.”
Petunia glanced around. The playground was deserted apart from themselves
and, though the girls did not know it, Snape. Lily had picked up a fallen
flower from the bush behind which Snape lurked. Petunia advanced, evidently
torn between curiosity and disapproval. Lily waited until Petunia was near
enough to have a clear view, then held out her palm. The flower sat there,
opening and closing its petals, like some bizarre, many-lipped oyster.
“Stop it!” shrieked Petunia.
“It’s not hurting you,” said Lily, but she closed her hand on the blossom and
threw it back to the ground.
