The two men appeared out of nowhere, a few yards apart in the narrow,
moonlit lane. For a second they stood quite still, wands directed
at each other’s chests; then, recognizing each other , they
stowed their wands beneath their cloaks and started walking briskly in the
same direction.
“News?” asked the taller of the two.
”The best,” replied Severus Snape.
The lane was bordered on the left by wild, low-growing brambles, on the
right by a high, nearly manicured hedge. The men’s long cloaks flapped around
their ankles as they marched.
“Thought I might be late,” said Yaxley, his blunt features sliding in and out
of sight as the branches of overhanging tress broke the moonlight. “It was
a little trickier than I expected. But I hope he will be satisfied. You should
confident that your reception will be good?”
Snape nodded, but did not elaborate. They turned right, into a wide driveway
that led off the lane. The high hedge curved into them, running off into the
distance beyond the pair of impressive wrought-iron gates barring the men’s
way. Neither of them broke step; In silence both raised their left arms in a
kind of salute and passed straight through, as though the dark metal were
7
8 CHAPTER 1. THE DARK LORD ASCENDING
smoke.
The yew hedges muffled the sound of the men’s footsteps. There was a
rustle somewhere to their right; Yaxley drew his wand again, pointing it over
his companion’s head, but the source of the noise proved to be nothing more
than a pure-white peacock, strutting majestically along the top of the hedge.
“He always did himself well, Lucius. Peacocks . . . ” Yaxley thrust his wand
back under his cloak with a snort.
A handsome manor house grew out of the darkness at the end of the straight
drive, lights glinting in the diamond-paned downstairs windows. Somewhere
in the dark garden beyond the hedge a fountain was playing. Gravel crackled
beneath their feet as Snape and Yaxley sped toward the front door, which
swung inward at their approach, though nobody had visibly opened it.
The hallway was large, dimly light, and sumptuously decorated, with a
magnificent carpet covering most of the stone floor. The eyes of the pale-faced
portraits on the walls followed Snape and Yaxley as they strode past. The two
men halted at a heavy wooden door leading into the next room, hesitated for
the space of a heartbeat, then Snape turned the bronze handle.
The drawing room was full of silent people, sitting at a long and ornate
table. The room’s usual furniture had been pushed carelessly up against the
walls. Illumination came from a roaring fire beneath a handsome marble mantelpiece
surmounted by a gilded mirror. Snape and Yaxley lingered for a moment
on the threshold. As their eyes grew accustomed to the lack of light, they
were drawn upward to the strangest feature of the scenes an apparently unconscious
human figure hanging upside down over the table, revolving slowly as
if suspended by an invisible rope, and reflected in the mirror and in the bare,
polished surface of the table below it. He seemed unable to prevent himself
from glancing upward every minute or so.
“Yaxley, Snape,” said a high, clear voice from the head of the table. “You are
very nearly late.”
Fleur Delacour, Harry noticed, was eyeing Bill with great interest over her
mother's shoulder. Harry could tell she had no objection whatsoever to long hair or
earrings with fangs on them.
"This is really nice of you," Harry muttered to Mrs. Weasley. "I thought for a
moment - the Dursleys -"
"Hmm," said Mrs. Weasley, pursing her lips. She had always refrained from
criticizing the Dursleys in front of Harry, but her eyes flashed every time they
were mentioned.
"It's great being back here," said Bill, looking around the chamber (Violet, the Fat
Lady's friend, winked at him from her frame). "Haven't seen this place for five
years. Is that picture of the mad knight still around? Sir Cadogan?"
"Oh yeah," said Harry, who had met Sir Cadogan the previous year.
"And the Fat Lady?" said Bill.
"She was here in my time," said Mrs. Weasley. "She gave me such a telling off
one night when I got back to the dormitory at four in the morning -"
"What were you doing out of your dormitory at four in the morning?" said Bill,
surveying his mother with amazement.
Mrs. Weasley grinned, her eyes twinkling.
"Your father and I had been for a nighttime stroll," she said. "He got caught by
399
Apollyon Pringle - he was the caretaker in those days - your father's still got the
marks."
"Fancy giving us a tour, Harry?" said Bill.
"Yeah, okay," said Harry, and they made their way back toward the door into the
Great Hall. As they passed Amos Diggory, he looked around.
"There you are, are you?" he said, looking Harry up and down.
"Bet you're not feeling quite as full of yourself now Cedrics caught you up on
points, are you?"
"What?" said Harry.
"Ignore him," said Cedric in a low voice to Harry, frowning after his father. "He's
been angry ever since Rita Skeeters article about the Triwizard Tournament - you
know, when she made out you were the only Hogwarts champion."
"Didn't bother to correct her, though, did he?" said Amos Diggory, loudly enough
for Harry to hear as he started to walk out of the door with Mrs. Weasley and Bill.
"Still, . . you'll show him, Ced. Beaten him once before, haven't you?"
"Rita Skeeter goes out of her way to cause trouble, Amos!" Mrs. Weasley said
angrily. "I would have thought you'd know that, working at the Ministry!"
Mr. Diggory looked as though he was going to say something angry, but his wife
laid a hand on his arm, and he merely shrugged and turned away.
Harry had a very enjoyable morning walking over the sunny grounds with Bill and
Mrs. Weasley, showing them the Beauxbatons carriage and the Durmstrang ship.
Mrs. Weasley was intrigued by the Whomping Willow, which had been planted
after she had left school, and reminisced at length about the gamekeeper before
Hagrid, a man called Ogg.
"How's Percy?" Harry asked as they walked around the greenhouses.
"Not good," said Bill.
"He's very upset," said Mrs. Weasley, lowering her voice and glancing around.
"The Ministry wants to keep Mr. Crouch's disappearance quiet, but Percy's been
hauled in for questioning about the instructions Mr. Crouch has been sending in.
They seem to think there's a chance they weren't genuinely written by him. Percy's
been under a lot of strain. They're not letting him fill in for Mr. Crouch as the fifth
judge tonight. Cornelius Fudge is going to be doing it."
They returned to the castle for lunch.
"Mum - Bill!" said Ron, looking stunned, as he joined the Gryffindor table.
"What're you doing here?"
400
"Come to watch Harry in the last task!" said Mrs. Weasley brightly. "I must say, it
makes a lovely change, not having to cook. How was your exam?"
"Oh . . . okay," said Ron. "Couldn't remember all the goblin rebels' names, so I
invented a few. It's all right," he said, helping himself to a Cornish pasty, while
Mrs. Weasley looked stern, "they're all called stuff like Bodrod the Bearded and
Urg the Unclean; it wasn't hard."
Fred, George, and Ginny came to sit next to them too, and Harry was having such
a good time he felt almost as though he were back at the Burrow; he had forgotten
to worry about that evening's task, and not until Hermione turned up, halfway
through lunch, did he remember that she had had a brainwave about Rita Skeeter.
"Are you going to tell us - ?"
Hermione shook her head warningly and glanced at Mrs. Weasley.
"Hello, Hermione," said Mrs. Weasley, much more stiffly than usual.
"Hello," said Hermione, her smile faltering at the cold expression on Mrs.
Weasley's face.
Harry looked between them, then said, "Mrs. Weasley, you didn't believe that
rubbish Rita Skeeter wrote in Witch Weekly, did you? Because Hermione's not my
girlfriend."
"Oh!" said Mrs. Weasley "No - of course I didn't!"
But she became considerably warmer toward Hermione after that.
Harry, Bill, and Mrs. Weasley whiled away the afternoon with a long walk around
the castle, and then returned to the Great Hall for the evening feast. Ludo Bagman
and Cornelius Fudge had joined the staff table now. Bagman looked quite
cheerful, but Cornelius Fudge, who was sitting next to Madame Maxime, looked
stern and was not talking. Madame Maxime was concentrating on her plate, and
Harry thought her eyes looked red. Hagrid kept glancing along the table at her,
There were more courses than usual, but Harry, who was starting to feel really
nervous now, didn't eat much. As the enchanted ceiling overhead began to fade
from blue to a dusky purple, Dumbledore rose to his feet at the staff table, and
silence fell.
"Ladies and gentlemen, in five minutes' time, I will be asking you to make your
way down to the Quidditch field for the third and final task of the Triwizard
Tournament. Will the champions please follow Mr. Bagman down to the stadium
now."
Harry got up. The Gryffindors all along the table were applauding him; the
Weasleys and Hermione all wished him good luck, and he headed off out of the
Great Hall with Cedric, Fleur, and Viktor.
