But on the edge of town, drills were driven out of his mind by somethingelse. As he sat in the usual morning traffic jam, he couldn't helpnoticing that there seemed to be a lot of strangely dressed people
about. People in cloaks. Mr. Dursley couldn't bear people who dressed in
funny clothes -- the getups you saw on young people! He supposed this
was some stupid new fashion. He drummed his fingers on the steering
wheel and his eyes fell on a huddle of these weirdos standing quite
close by. They were whispering excitedly together. Mr. Dursley was
enraged to see that a couple of them weren't young at all; why, that man
had to be older than he was, and wearing an emerald-green cloak! The
nerve of him! But then it struck Mr. Dursley that this was probably some
silly stunt -- these people were obviously collecting for something...
yes, that would be it. The traffic moved on and a few minutes later, Mr.
Dursley arrived in the Grunnings parking lot, his mind back on drills.The Dursleys had everything they wanted, but they also had a secret, and
their greatest fear was that somebody would discover it. They didn't
think they could bear it if anyone found out about the Potters. Mrs.
Potter was Mrs. Dursley's sister, but they hadn't met for several years;
in fact, Mrs. Dursley pretended she didn't have a sister, because her
sister and her good-for-nothing husband were as unDursleyish as it was
possible to be. The Dursleys shuddered to think what the neighbors would
say if the Potters arrived in the street. The Dursleys knew that the
Potters had a small son, too, but they had never even seen him. This boy
was another good reason for keeping the Potters away; they didn't want
Dudley mixing with a child like that.After lunch they went to the reptile house. It was cool and dark in
there, with lit windows all along the walls. Behind the glass, all sorts
of lizards and snakes were crawling and slithering over bits of wood and
stone. Dudley and Piers wanted to see huge, poisonous cobras and thick,
man-crushing pythons. Dudley quickly found the largest snake in the
place. It could have wrapped its body twice around Uncle Vernon's car
and crushed it into a trash can -- but at the moment it didn't look in
the mood. In fact, it was fast asleep.
Dudley stood with his nose pressed against the glass, staring at the
glistening brown coils.
"Make it move," he whined at his father. Uncle Vernon tapped on the
glass, but the snake didn't budge.
"Do it again," Dudley ordered. Uncle Vernon rapped the glass smartly
with his knuckles, but the snake just snoozed on.
"This is boring," Dudley moaned. He shuffled away.
Harry moved in front of the tank and looked intently at the snake. He
wouldn't have been surprised if it had died of boredom itself -- no
company except stupid people drumming their fingers on the glass trying
to disturb it all day long. It was worse than having a cupboard as a
bedroom, where the only visitor was Aunt Petunia hammering on the door
to wake you up; at least he got to visit the rest of the house.
The snake suddenly opened its beady eyes. Slowly, very slowly, it raised
its head until its eyes were on a level with Harry's.
It winked.
Harry stared. Then he looked quickly around to see if anyone was
watching. They weren't. He looked back at the snake and winked, too.
The snake jerked its head toward Uncle Vernon and Dudley, then raised
its eyes to the ceiling. It gave Harry a look that said quite plainly:
"I get that all the time.
"I know," Harry murmured through the glass, though he wasn't sure the
snake could hear him. "It must be really annoying." "Harry," said Hagrid, clapping a massive hand on his shoulder, so that Harry's
knees buckled under its weight, "I'd've bin worried before I saw yeh take on tha
Horntail, but I know now yeh can do anythin' yeh set yer mind ter. I'm not worried
at all. Yeh're goin ter be fine. Got yer clue worked out, haven' yeh?"
Harry nodded, but even as he did so, an insane urge to confess that he didn't have
any idea how to survive at the bottom of the lake for an hour came over him. He
looked up at Hagrid - perhaps he had to go into the lake sometimes, to deal with
the creatures in it? He looked after everything else on the grounds, after all-
"Yeh're goin' ter win," Hagrid growled, patting Harrys shoulder again, so that
Harry actually felt himself sink a couple of inches into the soft ground. "I know it.
I can feel it. Yeh're goin' ter win, Harry n
Harry just couldn't bring himself to wipe the happy, confident smile off Hagrid's
face. Pretending he was interested in the young unicorns, he forced a smile in
return, and moved forward to pat them with the others.
By the evening before the second task. Harry felt as though he were trapped in a
nightmare. He was fully aware that even if, by some miracle, he managed to find a
suitable spell, he'd have a real job mastering it overnight. How could he have let
this happen? Why hadn't he got to work on the egg's clue sooner? Why had he
ever let his mind wander in class - what if a teacher had once mentioned how to
breathe underwater?
He sat with Hermione and Ron in the library as the sun set outside, tearing
feverishly through page after page of spells, hidden from one another by the
massive piles of books on the desk in front of each of them. Harry s heart gave a
315
huge leap every time he saw the word "water" on a page, but more often than not it
was merely "Take two pints of water, half a pound of shredded mandrake leaves,
and a newt..."
"I don't reckon it can be done," said Rons voice flatly from the other side of the
table. "There's nothing. Nothing. Closest was that thing to dry up puddles and
ponds, that Drought Charm, but that was nowhere near powerful enough to drain
the lake."
"There must be something," Hermione muttered, moving a candle closer to her.
Her eyes were so tired she was poring over the tiny print of Olde and Forgotten
Bewitchments and Charmes with her nose about an inch from the page. "They'd
never have set a task that was undoable."
"They have," said Ron. "Harry, just go down to the lake tomorrow, right, stick
your head in, yell at the merpeople to give back whatever they've nicked, and see
if they chuck it out. Best you can do, mate."
"There's a way of doing it!" Hermione said crossly. "There Just has to be!"
She seemed to be taking the library's lack of useful information on the subject as a
personal insult; it had never failed her before.
"I know what I should have done," said Harry, resting, face-down, on Saucy
Tricks for Tricky Sorts. "I should've learned to be an Animagus like Sirius."
An Animagus was a wizard who could transform into an animal.
"Yeah, you could've turned into a goldfish any time you wanted!" said Ron.
"Or a frog," yawned Harry. He was exhausted. "It takes years to become an
Animagus, and then you have to register yourself and everything," said Hermione
vaguely, now squinting down the index of Weird Wizarding Dilemmas and Their
Solutions. "Professor McGonagall told us, remember... you've got to register
yourself with the Improper Use of Magic Office ...what animal you become, and
your markings, so you can't abuse it..."
"Hermione, I was joking," said Harry wearily. "I know I haven't got a chance of
turning into a frog by tomorrow morning...."
"Oh this is no use," Hermione said, snapping shut Weird Wizarding Dilemmas.
"Who on earth wants to make their nose hair grow into ringlets?"
"I wouldn't mind," said Fred Weasleys voice. "Be a talking point, wouldn't it?"
Harry, Ron, and Hermione looked up. Fred and George had just emerged from
behind some bookshelves.
"What're you two doing here?" Ron asked.
"Looking for you," said George. "McGonagall wants you, Ron. And you,
316
Hermione."
"Why?" said Hermione, looking surprised.
"Dunno ... she was looking a bit grim, though," said Fred.
"We're supposed to take you down to her office," said George.
Ron and Hermione stared at Harry, who felt his stomach drop. Was Professor
McGonagall about to tell Ron and Hermione off? Perhaps she'd noticed how much
they were helping him, when he ought to be working out how to do the task alone?
"We'll meet you back in the common room," Hermione told Harry as she got up to
go with Ron - both of them looked very anxious. "Bring as many of these books as
you can, okay?"
"Right," said Harry uneasily.
By eight o'clock. Madam Pince had extinguished all the lamps and came to chivvy
Harry out of the library. Staggering under the weight of as many books as he could
carry, Harry returned to the Gryffindor common room, pulled a table into a corner,
and continued to search. There was nothing in Madcap Magic for Wacky
Warlocks. . . nothing in A Guide to Medieval Sorcery . . . not one mention of
underwater exploits in An Anthology of Eighteenth-Century Charms, or in
Dreadful Denizens of the Deep, or Powers You Never Knew You Had and What
to Do with Them Now Youve Wised Up.
Crookshanks crawled into Harrys lap and curled up, purring deeply. The common
room emptied slowly around Harry. People kept wishing him luck for the next
morning in cheery, confident voices like Hagrid s, all of them apparently
convinced that he was about to pull off another stunning performance like the one
he had managed in the first task. Harry couldn't answer them, he just nodded,
feeling as though there were a golfball stuck in his throat. By ten to midnight, he
was alone in the room with Crookshanks. He had searched all the remaining
books, and Ron and Hermione had not come back.
