The enchanted ceiling of the Great Hall was dark and scattered with
stars, and below it the four long House tables were lined with disheveled
students, some in traveling cloaks, others in dressing gowns.
Here and there shone the pearly white figures of the school ghosts. Every eye,
living and dead, was fixed upon Professor McGonagall, who was speaking from
the raised platform at the top of the Hall. Behind her stood the remaining
teachers, including the palomino centaur, Firenze, and the members of the Order
of the Phoenix who had arrived to fight.
“—evacuation will be overseen by Mr. Filch and Madam Pomfrey. Prefects,
when I give the word, you will organize your House and take your charges, in
an orderly fashion, to the evacuation point.”
Many of the students looked petrified. However, as Harry skirted the walls,
scanning the Gryffindor table for Ron and Hermione, Ernie Macmillan stood up
at the Hufflepuff table and shouted. “And what if we want to stay and fight?”
There was a smattering of applause.
“If you are of age, you may stay,” said Professor McGonagall.
“What about our things?” called a girl at the Ravenclaw table. “Our trunks,
our owls?”
“We have no time to collect possessions,” said Professor McGonagall. “The
515
516 CHAPTER 31. THE BATTLE OF HOGWARTS
important thing is to get you out of here safely.”
“Where’s Professor Snape?” shouted a girl from the Slytherin table.
“He has, to use the common phrase, done a bunk,” replied Professor McGonagall,
and a great cheer erupted from the Gryffindors, Hufflepuffs, and Ravenclaws.
Harry moved up the Hall alongside the Gryffindor table, still looking for
Ron and Hermione. As he paused, faces turned in his direction, and a great
deal of whispering broke out in his wake.
“We have already placed protection around the castle,” Professor McGonagall
was saying, “but it is unlikely to hold for very long unless we reinforce it. I
must ask you, therefore, to move quickly and calmly, and so as your prefects—”
But her final words were drowned as a different voice echoed throughout
the Hall. It was high, cold, and clean. There was no telling from where it came;
it seemed to issue from the walls themselves. Like the monster it had once
commanded, it might have lain dormant there for centuries.
“I know you are preparing to fight.” There were screams amongst the students,
some of whom clutched each other, looking around in terror for the
source of the sound. “Your efforts are futile. You cannot fight me. I do not
want to kill you. I have great respect for the teachers of Hogwarts. I do not
want to spill magical blood.”
There was silence in the Hall now, the kind of silence that presses against
the eardrums, that seems too huge to be contained by walls.
“Give me Harry Potter,” said Voldemort’s voice, “and none shall be harmed.
Give me Harry Potter, and I shall leave the school untouched. Give me Harry
Potter, and you should be rewarded.
“You have until midnight.”
The silence swallowed them all again. Every head turned, every eye in the
place seemed to have found Harry, to hold him frozen in the glare of thousands
of invisible beams. Then a figure rose from the Slytherin table and he recognized
Pansy Parkinson as she raised a shaking arm and screamed, “But he’s
there! Potter’s there! Someone grab him!”
517
Before Harry could speak, there was a massive movement. The Gryffindors
in front of him had risen and stood facing, not Harry, but the Slytherins. Then
the Hufflepuffs stood, and almost at the same moment, the Ravenclaws, all of
them, with their backs to Harry, all of them looking toward Pansy instead, and
Harry, awe-struck and overwhelmed, saw wands emerging everywhere, pulled
from beneath cloaks and under sleeves.
“Thank you, Miss Parkinson,” said Professor McGonagall in a clipped voice.
“You will leave the Hall first with Mr. Filch. If the rest of your House could
follow.”
Harry heard the grinding of benches and then the sound of the Slytherins
trooping out on the other side of the Hall.
“Ravenclaws, follow on!” cried Professor McGonagall.
Slowly the four tables emptied. The Slytherin table was completely deserted,
but a number of older Ravenclaws remained seated while their fellows
filed out; even more Hufflepuffs stayed behind, and half of remained in their
seats, necessitating Professor McGonagall’s descent from the teachers’ platform
to chivvy the underage on their way.
“Absolutely not, Creevey, go! And you, Peakes!”
Harry hurried over to the Weasleys, all sitting together at the Gryffindor
table.
“Where are Ron and Hermione?”
“Haven’t you found—?” began Mr. Weasley, looking worried.
But he broke off as Kingsley had stepped forward on the raised platform to
address those who had remained behind.
“We’ve only got half an hour until midnight, so we need to act fast! A battle
plan has been agreed between the teachers of Hogwarts and the Order of
the Phoenix. Professors Flitwick, Sprout, and McGonagall are going to take
groups of fighters up to the three highest towers—Ravenclaw, Astronomy, and
Gryffindor—where they’ll have a good overview, excellent positions from which
to work spells. Meanwhile Remus”—he indicated Lupin—“Arthur”—he pointed
toward Mr. Weasley, sitting at the Gryffindor table—“and I will take groups
518 CHAPTER 31. THE BATTLE OF HOGWARTS
into the grounds. We’ll need somebody to organize defense of the entrances of
the passageways into the school—”
“Sounds like a job for us,” called Fred, indicating himself and George, and
Kingsley nodded his approval.
“All right, leaders up hear and we’ll divide up the troops!”
“Potter,” said Professor McGonagall, hurrying up to him, as students flooded
the platform, jostling for position, receiving instructions, “Aren’t you supposed
to be looking for something?”
“What? Oh,” said Harry, “oh yeah!”
He had almost forgotten about the Horcrux, almost forgotten that the battle
was being fought so that he could search for it: The inexplicable absence of Ron
and Hermione had momentarily driven every other thought from his mind.
“Then go, Potter, go!”
“Right—yeah—”
He sensed eyes following him as he ran out of the Great Hall again, into the
entrance hall still crowded with evacuating students. He allowed himself to be
swept up the marble staircase with them, but at the top he hurried off along a
deserted corridor. Fear and panic were clouding his thought processes. He tried
to calm himself, to concentrate on finding the Horcrux, but his thoughts buzzed
as frantically and fruitlessly as wasps trapped beneath a glass. Without Ron
and Hermione to help him he could not seem to marshal his ideas. He slowed
down, coming to a halt halfway along an empty passage, where he sat down
upon the plinth of a departed statue and pulled the Marauder’s Map out of the
pouch around his neck. He could not see Ron’s or Hermione’s names anywhere
on it, though the density of the crowd of dots now making its way to the Room
of Requirement might, he thought, be concealing them. He put the map away,
pressed his hands over his face, and closed his eyes, trying to concentrate. . . .
Voldemort thought I’d go to Ravenclaw Tower.
There it was: a solid fact, the place to start. Voldemort had stationed Alecto
Carrow in the Ravenclaw common room, and there could only be one explanation:
Voldemort feared that Harry already knew his Horcrux was connected to
519
that house.
But the only object anyone seemed to associate with Ravenclaw was the lost
diadem . . . and how could the Horcrux be the diadem? How was it possible that
Voldemort, the Slytherin, had found the diadem that had eluded generations
of Ravenclaws? Who could have told him where to look, when nobody had seen
the diadem in living memory?
In living memory . . . .
Beneath his fingers, Harry’s eyes flew open again. He leapt up from the
plinth and tore back the way he had come, now in pursuit of his one last hope.
The sound of hundreds of people marching towards the Room of Requirement
grew louder and louder as he returned to the marble stairs. Prefects were
shouting instructions, trying to keep track of the students in their own Houses;
there was much pushing and shoving; Harry saw Zacharias Smith bowling over
first years to get to the front of the queue; here and there younger students
were in tears, while older ones called desperately for friends or siblings . . . .
Harry caught sight of a pearly white figure drifting across the entrance hall
below and yelled as loudly as he could over the clamor.
“Nick! NICK! I need to talk to you!”
He forced his way back through the tide of students, finally reaching the
bottom of the stairs, where Nearly Headless Nick, ghost of Gryffindor Tower,
stood waiting for him.
“Harry! My dear boy!”
Nick made to grasp Harry’s hands with both of his own: Harry’s felt as
though they had been thrust into icy water.
“Nick, you’ve got to help me. Who’s the ghost of Ravenclaw Tower?”
Nearly Headless Nick looked surprised and a little offended.
“The Gray Lady, of course; but if it is ghostly services you require—?”
“It’s got to be her—d’you know where she is?”
“Let’s see . . . .”
Nick’s head wobbled a little on his ruff as he turned hither and thither,
peering over the heads of the swarming students.
520 CHAPTER 31. THE BATTLE OF HOGWARTS
“That’s her over there, Harry, the young woman with the long hair.”
Harry looked in the direction of Nick’s transparent, pointing finger and saw
a tall ghost who caught sight of Harry looking at her, raised her eyebrows, and
drifted away through a solid wall.
Harry ran after her. Once through the door of the corridor into which
she had disappeared, he saw her at the very end of the passage, still gliding
smoothly away from him.
“Hey—wait—come back!”
She consented to pause, floating a few inches from the ground. Harry supposed
that she was beautiful, with her waist-length hair and floor-length cloak,
but she also looked haughty and proud. Close to, he recognized her as a ghost
he had passed several times in the corridor, but to whom he had never spoken.
“You’re the Gray Lady?”
She nodded but did not speak.
“The ghost of Ravenclaw Tower?”
“That is correct.”
Her tone was not encouraging.
“Please: I need some help. I need to know anything you can tell me about
the lost diadem.”
A cold smile curved her lips.
“I am afraid,” she said, turning to leave, “that I cannot help you.”
“WAIT!”
He had not meant to shout, but anger and panic were threatening to overwhelm
him. He glanced at his watch as she hovered in front of him. It was a
quarter to midnight.
“This is urgent,” he said fiercely. “If that diadem’s at Hogwarts, I’ve got to
find it, fast.”
“You are hardly the first student to covet the diadem,” she said disdainfully.
“Generations of students have badgered me—”
“This isn’t about trying to get better marks!” Harry shouted at her. “It’s
about Voldemort—defeating Voldemort—or aren’t you interested in that?”
521
She could not blush, but her transparent cheeks became more opaque, and
her voice was heated as she replied, “Of course I—how dare you suggest—?”
“Well, help me, then!”
Her composure was slipping.
“It—it is not a question of—” she stammered. “My mother’s diadem—”
“Your mother’s?”
She looked angry with herself.
“When I lived,” she said stiffly, “I was Helena Ravenclaw.”
“You’re her daughter? But then, you must know what happened to it!”
“While the diadem bestows wisdom,” she said with an obvious effort to pull
herself together, “I doubt that it would greatly increase your chances of defeating
the wizard who calls himself Lord—”
“Haven’t I just told you, I’m not interested in wearing it!” Harry said
fiercely. “There’s no time to explain—but if you care about Hogwarts, if you
want to see Voldemort finished, you’ve got to tell me anything you know about
the diadem!”
She remained quite still, floating in midair, staring down at him, and a
sense of hopelessness engulfed Harry. Of course, if she had known anything,
she would have told Flitwick or Dumbledore, who had surely asked her the
same question. He had shaken his head and made to turn away when she
spoke in a low voice.
“I stole the diadem from my mother.”
“You—you did what?”
“I stole the diadem,” repeated Helena Ravenclaw in a in a whisper. “I sought
to make myself cleverer, more important than my mother. I ran away with it.”
He did not know how he had managed to gain her confidence and did not
ask; he simply listened, hard, as she went on.
“My mother, they say, never admitted that the diadem was gone, but pretended
that she had it still. She concealed her loss, my dreadful betrayal, even
from the other founders of Hogwarts.
“Then my mother fell ill-fatally ill. In spite of my perfidy, she was desperate
522 CHAPTER 31. THE BATTLE OF HOGWARTS
to see me one more time. She sent a man who had long loved me, though I
spurned his advances, to find me. She knew that he would not rest until he
had done so.”
Harry waited. She drew a deep breath and threw back her head.
“He tracked me to the forest where I was hiding. When I refused to return
with him, he became violent. The Baron was always a hot-tempered man.
Furious at my refusal, jealous of my freedom, he stabbed me.”
“The Baron? You mean—?”
“The Bloody Baron, yes,” said the Gray Lady, and she lifted aside the cloak
she wore to reveal a single dark wound in her white chest. “When he saw what
he had done, he was overcome with remorse. He took the weapon that had
claimed my life, and used it to kill himself. All these centuries later, he wears
his chains as an act of penitence . . . as he should,” she added bitterly.
“And . . . and the diadem?”
“It remained where I had hidden it when I heard the Baron blundering
through the forest toward me. Concealed inside a hollow tree.”
“A hollow tree?” repeated Harry. “What tree? Where was this?”
“A forest in Albania. A lonely place I thought was far beyond my mother’s
reach.”
“Albania,” repeated Harry. Sense was emerging miraculously from confusion,
and now he understood why she was telling him what she had denied
Dumbledore and Flitwick. “You’ve already told someone this story, haven’t
you? Another student?”
She closed her eyes and nodded.
“I had . . . no idea. . . . He was . . . flattering. He seemed to . . . to understand
. . . to sympathize . . . . ”
Yes, Harry thought, Tom Riddle would certainly have understood Helena
Ravenclaw’s desire to possess fabulous objects to which she had little right.
“Well, you weren’t the first person Riddle wormed things out of,” Harry muttered.
“He could be charming when he wanted. . . . ”
So Voldemort had managed to wheedle the location of the lost diadem out
523
of the Gray Lady. He had traveled to that far-flung forest and retrieved the
diadem from its hiding place, perhaps as soon as he left Hogwarts, before he
even started work at Borgin and Burkes.
And wouldn’t those secluded Albanian woods have seemed an excellent
refuge when, so much later, Voldemort had needed a place to lie low, undisturbed,
for ten long years?
But the diadem, once it became his precious Horcrux, had not been left in
that lowly tree. . . . No, the diadem had been returned secretly to its true home,
and Voldemort must have put it there—
“—the night he asked for a job!” said Harry, finishing his thought.
“I beg your pardon?”
“He hid the diadem in the castle, the night he asked Dumbledore to let him
teach!” said Harry. Saying it out loud enabled him to make sense of it all.
“He must’ve hidden the diadem on his way up to, or down from, Dumbledore’s
office! But it was still worth trying to get the job—then he might’ve got the
chance to nick Gryffindor’s sword as well . . . thank you, thanks!”
Harry left her floating there, looking utterly bewildered. As he rounded the
corner back into the entrance hall, he checked his watch. It was five minutes
until midnight, and though he now knew what the last Horcrux was, he was
no closer to discovering where it was.
Lost in desperate speculation, Harry turned a corner, but he had taken only
a few steps down the new corridor when the window to his left broke open
with a deafening, shattering crash. As he leapt aside, a gigantic body flew
in through the window and hit the opposite wall. Something large and furry
detached itself, whimpering, from the new arrival and flung itself at Harry.
“Hagrid!” Harry bellowed, fighting off Fang the boarhound’s attentions as
the enormous bearded figure clambered to his feet. “What the—?”
“Harry, yer here! Yer here!”
Hagrid stooped down, bestowed upon Harry a cursory and rib-cracking hug,
then ran back to the shattered window.
“Good boy, Grawpy!” he bellowed through the hole in the window. “I’ll see
524 CHAPTER 31. THE BATTLE OF HOGWARTS
yer in a moment, there’s a good lad!”
Beyond Hagrid, out in the dark night, Harry saw bursts of light in the distance
and heard a weird, keening scream. He looked down at his watch. It was
midnight. The battle had begun.
“Blimey, Harry,” panted Hagrid, “this is it, eh? Time ter fight?”
“Hagrid, where have you come from?”
“Heard You-Know-Who from up in our cave,” said Hagrid grimly. “Voice
carried, didn’ it? ‘Yeh got till midnight ter gimme Potter.’ Knew yeh mus’ be
here, knew what mus’ be happenin’. Get down, Fang. So we come ter join in,
me an’ Grawpy an’ Fang. Smashed our way through the boundary by the forest,
Grawpy was carryin’ us, Fang an’ me. Told him ter let me down at the castle,
so he shoved me through the window, bless him. Not exac’ly what I meant,
bu’—where’s Ron an’ Hermione?”
“That,” said Harry, “is a really good question. Come on.”
They hurried together along the corridor, Fang lolloping beside them. Harry
could hear movement through the corridors all around: running footsteps,
shouts; through the windows, he could see more flashes of light in the dark
grounds.
“Where’re we goin’?” puffed Hagrid, pounding along at Harry’s heels, making
the floorboards quake.
“I dunno exactly,” said Harry, making another random turn, “but Ron and
Hermione must be around here somewhere. . . . ”
The first casualties of the battle were already strewn across the passage
ahead: The two stone gargoyles that usually guarded the entrance to the staffroom
had been smashed apart by a jinx that had sailed through another broken window.
Their remains stirred feebly on the floor, and as Harry leapt over one of
their disembodied heads, it moaned faintly. “Oh, don’t mind me . . . I’ll just lie
here and crumble. . . .”
Its ugly stone face made Harry think suddenly of the marble bust of Rowena
Ravenclaw at Xenophilius’s house, wearing that mad headdress—and then of
the statue in Ravenclaw Tower, with the stone diadem upon her white curls. . . .
525
And as he reached the end of the passage, the memory of a third stone effigy
came back to him: that of an ugly old warlock, onto whose head Harry himself
had placed a wig and a battered old tiara. The shock shot through Harry with
the heat of firewhisky, and he nearly stumbled.
He knew, at last, where the Horcrux sat waiting for him. . . .
Tom Riddle, who confided in no one and operated alone, might have been
arrogant enough to assume that he, and only he, had penetrated the deepest
mysteries of Hogwarts Castle. Of course, Dumbledore and Flitwick, those
model pupils, had never set foot in that particular place, but he, Harry, had
strayed off the beaten track in his time at school—here at last was a secret he
and Voldemort knew, that Dumbledore had never discovered—
He was roused by Professor Sprout, who was thundering past followed by
Neville and half a dozen others, all of them wearing earmuffs and carrying
what appeared to be large potted plants.
“Mandrakes!” Neville bellowed at Harry over his shoulder as he ran. “Going
to lob them over the walls—they won’t like this!”
Harry knew now where to go. He sped off, with Hagrid and Fang galloping
behind him. They passed portrait after portrait, and the painted figures
raced alongside them, wizards and witches in ruffs and breeches, in armor and
cloaks, cramming themselves into each others’ canvases, screaming news from
other parts of the castle. As they reached the end of this corridor, the whole
castle shook, and Harry knew, as a gigantic vase blew off its plinth with explosive
force, that it was in the grip of enchantments more sinister than those of
the teachers and the Order.
“It’s all righ’, Fang—it’s all righ’!” yelled Hagrid, but the great boarhound
had taken flight as slivers of china flew like shrapnel through the air, and
Hagrid pounded off after the terrified dog, leaving Harry alone.
He forged on through the trembling passages, his wand at the ready, and
for the length of one corridor the little painted knight, Sir Cadogan, rushed
from painting to painting beside him, clanking along in his armor, screaming
encouragement, his fat little pony cantering behind him.
526 CHAPTER 31. THE BATTLE OF HOGWARTS
“Braggarts and rogues, dogs and scoundrels, drive them out, Harry Potter,
see them off!”
Harry hurtled around a corner and found Fred and a small knot of students,
including Lee Jordan and Hannah Abbott, standing beside another empty plinth,
whose statue had concealed a secret passageway. Their wands were drawn and
they were listening at the concealed hole.
“Nice night for it!” Fred shouted as the castle quaked again, and Harry
sprinted by, elated and terrified in equal measure. Along yet another corridor
he dashed, and then there were owls everywhere, and Mrs. Norris was hissing
and trying to bat them with her paws, no doubt to return them to their proper
place . . . .
“Potter!”
Aberforth Dumbledore stood blocking the corridor ahead, his wand held
ready.
“I’ve had hundreds of kinds thundering through my pub, Potter.”
“I know, we’re evacuating,” Harry said, “Voldemort’s—”
“—attacking because they haven’t handed you over, yeah,” said Aberforth.
“I’m not deaf, the whole of Hogsmeade heard him. And it never occurred to any
of you to keep a few Slytherins hostage? There are kids of Death Eaters you’ve
just sent to safety. Wouldn’t it have been a bit smarter to keep ’em here?”
“It wouldn’t stop Voldemort,” said Harry, “and your brother would never
have done it.”
Aberforth grunted and tore away in the opposite direction.
Your brother would never have done it . . . . Well, it was the truth, Harry
thought as he ran on again: Dumbledore, who had defended Snape for so long,
would never have held students ransom . . . .
And then he skidded around a final corner and with a yell of mingled relief
and fury he saw them: Ron and Hermione, both with their arms full of large,
curved, dirty yellow objects, Ron with a broomstick under his arm.
“Where the hell have you been?” Harry shouted.
“Chamber of Secrets,” said Ron.