All Harry's spellbooks, his wand, robes, cauldron, and top-of-the-line
Nimbus Two Thousand broomstick had been locked in a cupboard
under the stairs by Uncle Vernon the instant Harry had come home.
What did the Dursleys care if Harry lost his place on the House
Quidditch team because he hadn't practiced all summer? What was it
to the Dursleys if Harry went back to school without any of his
homework done? The Dursleys were what wizards called Muggles
(not a drop of magical blood in their veins),
and as far as they were concerned, having a wizard in the family was
a matter of deepest shame. Uncle Vernon had even padlocked
Harry's owl, Hedwig, inside her cage, to stop her from carrying
messages to anyone in the wizarding world.
Harry looked nothing like the rest of the family. Uncle Vernon was
large and neckless, with an enormous black mustache; Aunt Petunia
4
was horse-faced and bony; Dudley was blond, pink, and porky. Harry,
on the other hand, was small and skinny, with brilliant green eyes and
jet-black hair that was always untidy. He wore round glasses, and on
his forehead was a thin, lightning-shaped scar.
It was this scar that made Harry so particularly unusual, even for a
wizard. This scar was the only hint of Harry's very mysterious past, of
the reason he had been left on the Dursleys' doorstep eleven years
before.
At the age of one year old, Harry had somehow survived a curse from
the greatest Dark sorcerer of all time, Lord Voldemort, whose name
most witches and wizards still feared to speak. Harry's parents had
died in Voldemort's attack, but Harry had escaped with his lightning
scar, and somehow - nobody understood why Voldemort's powers had
been destroyed the instant he had failed to kill Harry.
So Harry had been brought up by his dead mother's sister and her
husband. He had spent ten years with the Dursleys, never
understanding why he kept making odd things happen without meaning
to, believing the Dursleys' story that he had got his scar in the car
crash that had killed his parents.
And then, exactly a year ago, Hogwarts had written to Harry,
and the whole story had come out. Harry had taken up his place at
wizard school, where he and his scar were famous ... but now the
school year was over, and he was back with the Dursleys for the
summer, back to being treated like a dog that had rolled in something
smelly.
The Dursleys hadn't even remembered that today happened to be
Harry's twelfth birthday. Of course, his hopes hadn't been high; they'd
never given him a real present, let alone a cake - but to ignore it
completely ...
At that moment, Uncle Vernon cleared his throat importantly and said,
"Now, as we all know, today is a very important day."
Harry looked up, hardly daring to believe it.
"This could well be the day I make the biggest deal of my career, "
5
said Uncle Vernon.
Harry went back to his toast. Of course, he thought bitterly, Un
cle Vernon was talking about the stupid dinner party. He'd been talk
ing of nothing else for two weeks. Some rich builder and his wife
were coming to dinner and Uncle Vernon was hoping to get a huge
order from him (Uncle Vernon's company made drills).
"I think we should run through the schedule one more time," said
Uncle Vernon. "We should all be in position at eight o'clock. Petunia,
you will be -?"
"In the lounge," said Aunt Petunia promptly, "waiting to welcome them
graciously to our home."
"Good, good. And Dudley?"
"I'll be waiting to open the door." Dudley put on a foul, simpering
smile. "May I take your coats, Mr. and Mrs. Mason?"
"They'll love him!" cried Aunt Petunia rapturously.
"Excellent, Dudley," said Uncle Vernon. Then he rounded on Harry.
"And you?"
"I'll be in my bedroom, making no noise and pretending I'm not
there," said Harry tonelessly.
"Exactly," said Uncle Vernon nastily. "I will lead them into the
lounge, introduce you, Petunia, and pour them -drinks. At eightfifteen
-"
"I'll announce dinner," said Aunt Petunia.
"And, Dudley, you'll say -"
"May I take you through to the dining room, Mrs. Mason?" said
Dudley, offering his fat arm to an invisible woman.
"My perfect little gentleman!" sniffed Aunt Petunia.
"And you?" said Uncle Vernon viciously to Harry.Harry, Ron, and Hermione went up to the Owlery after breakfast on Sunday to
send a letter to Percy, asking, as Sirius had suggested, whether he had seen Mr.
Crouch lately. They used Hedwig, because it had been so long since she'd had a
job. When they had watched her fly out of sight through the Owlery window, they
proceeded down to the kitchen to give Dobby his new socks.
The house-elves gave them a very cheery welcome, bowing and curtsying and
bustling around making tea again. Dobby was ecstatic about his present.
"Harry Potter is too good to Dobby!" he squeaked, wiping large tears out of his
enormous eyes.
"You saved my life with that gillyweed, Dobby, you really did," said Harry.
"No chance of more of those eclairs, is there?" said Ron, who was looking around
at the beaming and bowing house-elves.
"You've just had breakfast!" said Hermione irritably, but a great silver platter of
eclairs was already zooming toward them, supported by four elves.
"We should get some stuff to send up to Snuffles," Harry muttered.
"Good idea," said Ron. "Give Pig something to do. You couldn't give us a bit of
extra food, could you?" he said to the surrounding elves, and they bowed
delightedly and hurried off to get some more.
"Dobby, where's Winky?" said Hermione, who was looking around.
"Winky is over there by the fire, miss," said Dobby quietly, his ears drooping
slightly.
"Oh dear," said Hermione as she spotted Winky.
Harry looked over at the fireplace too. Winky was sitting on the same stool as last
time, but she had allowed herself to become so filthy that she was not immediately
distinguishable from the smoke-blackened brick behind her. Her clothes were
ragged and unwashed. She was clutching a bottle of butterbeer and swaying
slightly on her stool, staring into the fire. As they watched her, she gave an
enormous hiccup.
"Winky is getting through six bottles a day now," Dobby whispered to Harry.
"Well, it's not strong, that stuff," Harry said.
But Dobby shook his head. "'Tis strong for a house-elf, sir," he said.
347
Winky hiccuped again. The elves who had brought the eclairs gave her
disapproving looks as they returned to work.
"Winky is pining, Harry Potter," Dobby whispered sadly. "Winky wants to go
home. Winky still thinks Mr. Crouch is her master, sir, and nothing Dobby says
will persuade her that Professor Dumbledore is her master now."
"Hey, Winky," said Harry, struck by a sudden inspiration, walking over to her, and
bending down, "you don't know what Mr. Crouch might be up to, do you? Because
he's stopped turning up to judge the Triwizard Tournament."
Winky's eyes flickered. Her enormous pupils focused on Harry. She swayed
slightly again and then said, "M - Master is stopped - hic - coming?"
"Yeah," said Harry, "we haven't seen him since the first task. The Daily Prophet's
saying he's ill."
Winky swayed some more, staring blurrily at Harry.
"Master- hic- ill?"
Her bottom lip began to tremble.
"But we're not sure if that's true," said Hermione quickly.
"Master is needing his - hie - Winky!" whimpered the elf. "Master cannot - hic -
manage - hic - all by himself. . . ."
"Other people manage to do their own housework, you know, Winky," Hermione
said severely.
"Winky - hic - is not only - hic - doing housework for Mr. Crouch!" Winky
squeaked indignantly, swaying worse than ever and slopping butterbeer down her
already heavily stained blouse. "Master is - hic - trusting Winky with - hic - the
most important - hic - the most secret..."
"What?" said Harry.
But Winky shook her head very hard, spilling more butterbeer down herself.
"Winky keeps - hic - her master's secrets," she said mutinously, swaying very
heavily now, frowning up at Harry with her eyes crossed. "You is - hic - nosing,
you is."
"Winky must not talk like that to Harry Potter!" said Dobby angrily. "Harry Potter
is brave and noble and Harry Potter is not nosy!"
"He is nosing - hic - into my master's - hic - private and secret - hic - Winky is a
good house-elf- hic - Winky keeps her silence - hic - people trying to - hic - pry
and poke - hic -"
348
Winky's eyelids drooped and suddenly, without warning, she slid off her stool into
the hearth, snoring loudly. The empty bottle of butterbeer rolled away across the
stone-flagged floor. Half a dozen house-elves came hurrying forward, looking
disgusted. One of them picked up the bottle; the others covered Winky with a
large checked tablecloth and tucked the ends in neatly, hiding her from view.
"We is sorry you had to see that, sirs and miss!" squeaked a nearby elf, shaking his
head and looking very ashamed. "We is hoping you will not judge us all by
Winky, sirs and miss!"
"She's unhappy!" said Hermione, exasperated. "Why don't you try and cheer her
up instead of covering her up?"
"Begging your pardon, miss," said the house-elf, bowing deeply again, "but houseelves
has no right to be unhappy when there is work to be done and masters to be
served."
"Oh for heavens sake!" Hermione cried. "Listen to me, all of you! You've got just
as much right as wizards to be unhappy! You've got the right to wages and
holidays and proper clothes, you don't have to do everything you're told - look at
Dobby!"
"Miss will please keep Dobby out of this," Dobby mumbled, looking scared. The
cheery smiles had vanished from the faces of the house-elves around the kitchen.
They were suddenly looking at Hermione as though she were mad and dangerous.
"We has your extra food!" squeaked an elf at Harry's elbow, and he shoved a large
ham, a dozen cakes, and some fruit into Harry's arms. "Good-bye!"
The house-elves crowded around Harry, Ron, and Hermione and began shunting
them out of the kitchen, many little hands pushing in the smalls of their backs.
"Thank you for the socks, Harry Potter!" Dobby called miserably from the hearth,
where he was standing next to the lumpy tablecloth that was Winky.
"You couldn't keep your mouth shut, could you, Hermione?" said Ron angrily as
the kitchen door slammed shut behind them. "They won't want us visiting them
now! We could've tried to get more stuff out of Winky about Crouch!"
"Oh as if you care about that!" scoffed Hermione. "You only like coming down
here for the food!"
It was an irritable sort of day after that. Harry got so tired of Ron and Hermione
sniping at each other over their homework in the common room that he took
Sirius's food up to the Owlery that evening on his own.
Pigwidgeon was much too small to carry an entire ham up to the mountain by
himself, so Harry enlisted the help of two school screech owls as well. When they
had set off into the dusk, looking extremely odd carrying the large package
between them. Harry leaned on the windowsill, looking out at the grounds, at the
349
dark, rustling treetops of the Forbidden Forest, and the rippling sails of the
Durmstrang ship. An eagle owl flew through the coil of smoke rising from Hagrids
chimney; it soared toward the castle, around the Owlery, and out of sight. Looking
down, Harry saw Hagrid digging energetically in front of his cabin. Harry
wondered what he was doing; it looked as though he were making a new vegetable
patch. As he watched, Madame Maxime emerged from the Beauxbatons carriage
and walked over to Hagrid. She appeared to be trying to engage him in
conversation. Hagrid leaned upon his spade, but did not seem keen to prolong their
talk, because Madame Maxime returned to the carriage shortly afterward.
Unwilling to go back to Gryffindor Tower and listen to Ron and Hermione
snarling at each other, Harry watched Hagrid digging until the darkness swallowed
him and the owls around Harry began to awake, swooshing past him into the night.
By breakfast the next day Ron's and Hermione's bad moods had burnt out, and to
Harrys relief, Ron's dark predictions that the house-elves would send substandard
food up to the Gryffindor table because Hermione had insulted them proved false;
the bacon, eggs, and kippers were quite as good as usual.
When the post owls arrived, Hermione looked up eagerly; she seemed to be
expecting something.
"Percy won't've had time to answer yet," said Ron. "We only sent Hedwig
yesterday."
"No, it's not that," said Hermione. "I've taken out a subscription to the Daily
Prophet. I'm getting sick of finding everything out from the Slytherins."
"Good thinking!" said Harry, also looking up at the owls. "Hey, Hermione, I think
you're in luck -"
A gray owl was soaring down toward Hermione.
"It hasn't got a newspaper, though," she said, looking disappointed. "It's -"
But to her bewilderment, the gray owl landed in front of her plate, closely
followed by four barn owls, a brown owl, and a tawny.
"How many subscriptions did you take out?" said Harry, seizing Hermione's
goblet before it was knocked over by the cluster of owls, all of whom were jostling
close to her, trying to deliver their own letter first.
"What on earth - ?" Hermione said, taking the letter from the gray owl, opening it,
and starting to read. "Oh really!" she sputtered, going rather red.
"What's up?" said Ron.
"It,'s - oh how ridiculous -"
She thrust the letter at Harry, who saw that it was not handwritten, but composed
350
from pasted letters that seemed to have been cut out of the Daily Prophet.
YOU ARE A WICKED GIRL. HARRY POTTER DESERVES
BETTER. GO BACK WHERE YOU CAME FROM MUGGLE.
"They're all like it!" said Hermione desperately, opening one letter after another.
"'Harry Potter can do much better than the likes of you. . . .' 'You deserve to be
boiled in frog spawn. . . .' Ouch!"
She had opened the last envelope, and yellowish-green liquid smelling strongly of
petrol gushed over her hands, which began to erupt in large yellow boils.
"Undiluted bubotuber pus!" said Ron, picking up the envelope gingerly and
sniffing it.
"Ow!" said Hermione, tears starting in her eyes as she tried to rub the pus off her
hands with a napkin, but her fingers were now so thickly covered in painful sores
that it looked as though she were wearing a pair of thick, knobbly gloves.
"You'd better get up to the hospital wing," said Harry as the owls around
Hermione took flight. "We'll tell Professor Sprout where you've gone. . . ."
"I warned her!" said Ron as Hermione hurried out of the Great Hall, cradling her
hands. "I warned her not to annoy Rita Skeeter! Look at this one ..." He read out
one of the letters Hermione had left behind: "I read In Witch Weekly about how
you are playing Harry Potter false and that boy has had enough hardship and I will
be sending you a curse by next post as soon as I can find a big enough envelope.'
Blimey, she'd better watch out for herself."
Hermione didn't turn up for Herbology. As Harry and Ron left the greenhouse for
their Care of Magical Creatures class, they saw Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle
descending the stone steps of the castle. Pansy Parkinson was whispering and
giggling behind them with her gang of Slytherin girls. Catching sight of Harry,
Pansy called, "Potter, have you split up with your girlfriend? Why was she so
upset at breakfast?"
Harry ignored her; he didn't want to give her the satisfaction of knowing how
much trouble the Witch Weekly article had caused.
Hagrid, who had told them last lesson that they had finished with unicorns, was
waiting for them outside his cabin with a fresh supply of open crates at his feet.
Harrys heart sank at the sight of the crates - surely not another skrewt hatching? -
but when he got near enough to see inside, he found himself looking at a number
of flurry black creatures with long snouts. Their front paws were curiously flat,
like spades, and they were blinking up at the class, looking politely puzzled at all
the attention.
"These're nifflers," said Hagrid, when the class had gathered around. "Yeh find
'em down mines mostly. They like sparkly stuff. . . . There yeh go, look."
351
One of the nifflers had suddenly leapt up and attempted to bite Pansy Parkinson's
watch off her wrist. She shrieked and jumped backward.
"Useful little treasure detectors," said Hagrid happily. "Thought we'd have some
fun with 'em today. See over there?" He pointed at the large patch of freshly
turned earth Harry had watched him digging from the Owlery window. "I've
buried some gold coins. I've got a prize fer whoever picks the niffler that digs up
most. Jus' take off all yer valuables, an' choose a niffler, an get ready ter set 'em
loose."
Harry took off his watch, which he was only wearing out of habit, as it didn't work
anymore, and stuffed it into his pocket. Then he picked up a niffler. It put its long
snout in Harry's ear and sniffed enthusiastically. It was really quite cuddly.
"Hang on," said Hagrid, looking down into the crate, "there's a spare niffler here . .
. who's missin? Where's Hermione?"
"She had to go to the hospital wing," said Ron.
"We'll explain later," Harry muttered; Pansy Parkinson was listening.
It was easily the most fun they had ever had in Care of Magical Creatures. The
nifflers dived in and out of the patch of earth as though it were water, each
scurrying back to the student who had released it and spitting gold into their
hands. Ron's was particularly efficient; it had soon filled his lap with coins.
"Can you buy these as pets, Hagrid?" he asked excitedly as his niffler dived back
into the soil, splattering his robes.
"Yer mum wouldn' be happy, Ron," said Hagrid, grinning. "They wreck houses,
nifflers. I reckon they've nearly got the lot, now," he added, pacing around the
patch of earth while the nifflers continued to dive. "I on'y buried a hundred coins.
Oh there y'are, Hermione!"
Hermione was walking toward them across the lawn. Her hands were very heavily
bandaged and she looked miserable. Pansy Parkinson was watching her beadily.
"Well, let's check how yeh've done!" said Hagrid. "Count yer coins! An' there's no
point tryin' ter steal any, Goyle," he added, his beetle-black eyes narrowed. "It's
leprechaun gold. Vanishes after a few hours."
Goyle emptied his pockets, looking extremely sulky. It turned out that Ron's
niffler had been most successful, so Hagrid gave him an enormous slab of
Honeydukes chocolate for a prize. The bell rang across the grounds for lunch; the
rest of the class set off back to the castle, but Harry, Ron, and Hermione stayed
behind to help Hagrid put the nifflers back in their boxes. Harry noticed Madame
Maxime watching them out other carriage window.
"What yeh done ter your hands, Hermione?" said Hagrid, looking concerned.
352
Hermione told him about the hate mail she had received that morning, and the
envelope full of bubotuber pus.
"Aaah, don worry," said Hagrid gendy, looking down at her. "I got some o' those
letters an all, after Rita Skeeter wrote abou me mum. 'Yeh're a monster an yeh
should be put down.' 'Yer mother killed innocent people an if you had any decency
you d jump in a lake.'"
"No!" said Hermione, looking shocked.
"Yeah," said Hagrid, heaving the niffler crates over by his cabin wall. "They're jus'
nutters, Hermione. Don' open 'em if yeh get any more. Chuck 'em straigh' in the
fire."
"You missed a really good lesson," Harry told Hermione as they headed back
toward the castle. "They're good, nifflers, aren't they, Ron?"
Ron, however, was frowning at the chocolate Hagrid had given him. He looked
thoroughly put out about something.
"What's the matter?" said Harry. "Wrong flavor?"
"No," said Ron shortly. "Why didn't you tell me about the gold?"
"What gold?" said Harry.
"The gold I gave you at the Quidditch World Cup," said Ron. "The leprechaun
gold I gave you for my Omnioculars. In the Top Box. Why didn't you tell me it
disappeared?"
Harry had to think for a moment before he realized what Ron was talking about.
"Oh . . ." he said, the memory coming back to him at last. "I dunno ... I never
noticed it had gone. I was more worried about my wand, wasn't I?"
They climbed the steps into the entrance hall and went into the Great Hall for
lunch.
"Must be nice," Ron said abruptly, when they had sat down and started serving
themselves roast beef and Yorkshire puddings. "To have so much money you don't
notice if a pocketful of Galleons goes missing."
"Listen, I had other stuff on my mind that night!" s aid Harry impatiently. "We all
did, remember?"
"I didn't know leprechaun gold vanishes," Ron muttered. "I thought I was paying
you back. You shouldn't've given me that Chudley Cannon hat for Christmas."
"Forget it, all right?" said Harry.
Ron speared a roast potato on the end of his fork, glaring at it. Then he said, "I
353
hate being poor."
