It was nearing midnight and the Prime Minister was sitting alone in his office, reading a long memo that was slipping through his brain without leaving the slightest trace of meaning behind. He was waiting for a call from the President of a far distant country, and between wondering when the wretched man would telephone, and trying to suppress unpleasant memories of what had been a very long, tiring, and difficult week, there was not much space in his head for anything else. The more he attempted to focus on the print on the page before him, the more clearly the Prime Minister could see the gloating face of one of his political opponents. This particular opponent had appeared on the news that very day, not only to enumerate all the terrible things that had happened in the last week (as though anyone needed reminding) but also to explain why each and every one of them was the government's fault.
The Prime Minister's pulse quickened at the very thought of these accusations, for they were neither fair nor true. How on earth was his government supposed to have stopped that bridge collapsing? It was outrageous for anybody to suggest that they were not spending enough on bridges. The bridge was fewer than ten years old, and the best experts were at a loss to explain why it had snapped cleanly in two, sending a dozen cars into the watery depths of the river below. And how dare anyone suggest that it was lack of policemen that had resulted in those two very nasty and well-publicized murders? Or that the government should have somehow foreseen the freak hurricane in the West Country that had caused so much damage to both people and property? And was it his fault that one of his Junior
Ministers, Herbert Chorley, had chosen this week to act so peculiarly that he was now going to be spending a lot more time with his family?
"A grim mood has gripped the country," the opponent had concluded, barely concealing his own broad grin.
And unfortunately, this was perfectly true. The Prime Minister felt it himself; people really did seem more miserable than usual. Even the weather was dismal; all this chilly mist in the middle of July... It wasn't right, it wasn't normal...
He turned over the second page of the memo, saw how much longer it went on, and gave it up as a bad job. Stretching his arms above his head he looked around his office mournfully. It was a handsome room, with a fine marble fireplace facing the long sash windows, firmly closed against the unseasonable chill. With a slight shiver, the Prime Minister got up and moved over to the window, looking out at the thin mist that was pressing itself against the glass. It was then, as he stood with his back to the room, that he heard a soft cough behind him. Dhispered.
Everything Harry had seen in the Pensieve, nearly everything Dumbledore had
told and shown him afterward, he had now shared with Ron and Hermione - and,
of course, with Sirius, to whom Harry had sent an owl the moment he had left
Dumbledore's office. Harry, Ron, and Hermione sat up late in the common room
once again that night, talking it all over until Harry's mind was reeling, until he
understood what Dumbledore had meant about a head becoming so full of
thoughts that it would have been a relief to siphon them off.
Ron stared into the common room fire. Harry thought he saw Ron shiver slightly,
even though the evening was warm.
"And he trusts Snape?" Ron said. "He really trusts Snape, even though he knows
he was a Death Eater?"
"Yes," said Harry.
Hermione had not spoken for ten minutes. She was sitting with her forehead in her
hands, staring at her knees. Harry thought she too looked as though she could have
done with a Pensieve.
"Rita Skeeter," she muttered finally.
"How can you be worrying about her now?" said Ron, in utter disbelief.
"I'm not worrying about her," Hermione said to her knees. "I'm just thinking. . .
remember what she said to me in the Three Broomsticks? 'I know things about
Ludo Bagman that would make your hair curl. ' This is what she meant, isn't it?
She reported his trial, she knew he'd passed information to the Death Eaters. And
Winky too, remember . . .'Ludo Bagman's a bad wizard.' Mr. Crouch would have
been furious he got off, he wumbledore reckons You-Know-Who's getting stronger again as well?" Ron
would have talked about it at home."
"Yeah, but Bagman didn't pass information on purpose, did he?"
Hermione shrugged.
"And Fudge reckons Madame Maxime attacked Crouch?" Ron said, turning back
to Harry.
"Yeah," said Harry, "but he's only saying that because Crouch disappeared near
the Beauxbatons carriage."
"We never thought of her, did we?" said Ron slowly. "Mind you, she's definitely
got giant blood, and she doesn't want to admit it-"
393
"Of course she doesn't," said Hermione sharply, looking up. "Look what happened
to Hagrid when Rita found out about his mother. Look at Fudge, jumping to
conclusions about her, just because she's part giant. Who needs that sort of
prejudice? I'd probably say I had big bones if I knew that's what I'd get for telling
the truth."
Hermione looked at her watch. "We haven't done any practicing!" she said,
looking shocked. "We were going to do the Impediment Curse! We'll have to
really get down to it tomorrow! Come on. Harry, you need to get some sleep."
Harry and Ron went slowly upstairs to their dormitory. As Harry pulled on his
pajamas, he looked over at Nevilles bed. True to his word to Dumbledore, he had
not told Ron and Hermione about Neville s parents. As Harry took off his glasses
and climbed into his four-poster, he imagined how it must feel to have parents still
living but unable to recognize you. He often got sympathy from strangers for
being an orphan, but as he listened to Nevilles snores, he thought that Neville
deserved it more than he did. Lying in the darkness, Harry felt a rush of anger and
hate toward the people who had tortured Mr. and Mrs. Longbottom. ... He
remembered the jeers of the crowd as Crouch's son and his companions had been
dragged from the court by the dementors. ... He understood how they had felt. . . .
Then he remembered the milk-white face of the screaming boy and realized with a
jolt that he had died a year later. . . .
It was Voldemort, Harry thought, staring up at the canopy of his bed in the
darkness, it all came back to Voldemort. ... He was the one who had torn these
families apart, who had ruined all these lives. . . .
Ron and Hermione were supposed to be studying for their exams, which would
finish on the day of the third task, but they were putting most of their efforts into
helping Harry prepare.
"Don't worry about it," Hermione said shortly when Harry pointed this out to them
and said he didn't mind practicing on his own for a while, "at least we'll get top
marks in Defense Against the Dark Arts. We'd never have found out about all
these hexes in class."
"Good training for when we're all Aurors," said Ron excitedly, attempting the
Impediment Curse on a wasp that had buzzed into the room and making it stop
dead in midair.
The mood in the castle as they entered June became excited and tense again.
Everyone was looking forward to the third task, which would take place a week
before the end of term. Harry was practicing hexes at every available moment. He
felt more confident about this task than either of the others. Difficult and
dangerous though it would undoubtedly be, Moody was right: Harry had managed
to find his way past monstrous creatures and enchanted barriers before now, and
this time he had some notice, some chance to prepare himself for what lay ahead.
394
Tired of walking in on Harry, Hermione, and Ron all over the school. Professor
McGonagall had given them permission to use the empty Transfiguration
classroom at lunchtimes. Harry had soon mastered the Impediment Curse, a spell
to slow down and obstruct attackers; the Reductor Curse, which would enable him
to blast solid objects out of his way; and the Four-Point Spell, a useful discovery
of Hermiones that would make his wand point due north, therefore enabling him to
check whether he was going in the right direction within the maze. He was still
having trouble with the Shield Charm, though. This was supposed to cast a
temporary, invisible wall around himself that deflected minor curses; Hermione
managed to shatter it with a well-placed Jelly-Legs Jinx, and Harry wobbled
around the room for ten minutes afterward before she had looked up the counterjinx.
"You're still doing really well, though," Hermione said encouragingly, looking
down her list and crossing off those spells they had already learned. "Some of
these are bound to come in handy."
"Come and look at this," said Ron, who was standing by the window. He was
staring down onto the grounds. "What's Malfoy doing?"
Harry and Hermione went to see. Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle were standing in the
shadow of a tree below. Crabbe and Goyle seemed to be keeping a lookout; both
were smirking. Malfoy was holding his hand up to his mouth and speaking into it.
"He looks like he's using a walkie-talkie," said Harry curiously.
"He can't be," said Hermione, "I've told you, those sorts of things don't work
around Hogwarts. Come on, Harry," she added briskly, turning away from the
window and moving back into the middle of the room, "let's try that Shield Charm
again."
Sirius was sending daily owls now. Like Hermione, he seemed to want to
concentrate on getting Harry through the last task before they concerned
themselves with anything else. He reminded Harry in every letter that whatever
might be going on outside the walls of Hogwarts was not Harry's responsibility,
nor was it within his power to influence it.
If Voldemort is really getting stronger again, he wrote, my priority is to ensure
your safety. He cannot hope to lay hands on you while you are under
Dumbledore's protection, but all the same, take no risks: Concentrate on getting
through that maze safely, and then we can turn our attention to other matters.
Harry's nerves mounted as June the twenty-fourth drew closer, but they were not
as bad as those he had felt before the first and second tasks. For one thing, he was
confident that, this time, he had done everything in his power to prepare for the
task. For another, this was the final hurdle, and however well or badly he did, the
tournament would at last be over, which would be an enormous relief.
Breakfast was a very noisy affair at the Gryffindor table on the morning of the
395
third task. The post owls appeared, bringing Harry a good-luck card from Sirius. It
was only a piece of parchment, folded over and bearing a muddy paw print on its
front, but Harry appreciated it all the same. A screech owl arrived for Hermione,
carrying her morning copy of the Daily Prophet as usual. She unfolded the paper,
glanced at the front page, and spat out a mouthful of pumpkin juice all over it.
"What?" said Harry and Ron together, staring at her. "Nothing," said Hermione
quickly, trying to shove the paper out of sight, but Ron grabbed it. He stared at the
headline and said, "No way. Not today. That old cow."
"What?" said Harry. "Rita Skeeter again?"
"No," said Ron, and just like Hermione, he attempted to push the paper out of
sight.
"It's about me, isn't it?" said Harry.
"No," said Ron, in an entirely unconvincing tone. But before Harry could demand
to see the paper. Draco Malfoy shouted across the Great Hall from the Slytherin
table.
"Hey, Potter! Potter! How's your head? You feeling all right? Sure you're not
going to go berserk on us?"
Malfoy was holding a copy of the Daily Prophet too. Slytherins up and down the
table were sniggering, twisting in their seats to see Harry's reaction.
"Let me see it," Harry said to Ron. "Give it here."
Very reluctantly, Ron handed over the newspaper. Harry turned it over and found
himself staring at his own picture, beneath the banner headline:
"HARRY POTTER "DISTURBED AND DANGEROUS"
The boy who defeated He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named is unstable and possibly
dangerous, writes Rita Skeeter, Special Correspondent. Alarming evidence has
recently come to light about Harry Potter's strange behavior, which casts doubts
upon his suitability to compete in a demanding competition like the Triwizard
Tournament, or even to attend Hogwarts School.
Potter, the Daily Prophet can exclusively reveal, regularly collapses at school, and
is often heard to complain of pain in the scar on his forehead (relic of the curse
with which You-Know-Who attempted to kill him). On Monday last, midway
through a Divination lesson, your Daily Prophet reporter witnessed Potter
storming from the class, claiming that his scar was hurting too badly to continue
studying.
It is possible, say top experts at St. Mungo's Hospital for Magical Maladies and
Injuries, that Potters brain was affected by the attack inflicted upon him by You-
Know-Who, and that his insistence that the scar is still hurting is an expression of
396
his deep-seated confusion.
"He might even be pretending," said one specialist. "This could be a plea for
attention."
The Daily Prophet, however, has unearthed worrying facts about Harry Potter that
Albus Dumbledore, Headmaster of Hogwarts, has carefully concealed from the
wizarding public.
"Potter can speak Parseltongue," reveals Draco Malfoy, a Hogwarts fourth year.
"There were a lot of attacks on students a couple of years ago, and most people
thought Potter was behind them after they saw him lose his temper at a dueling
club and set a snake on another boy. It was all hushed up, though. But he's made
friends with werewolves and giants too. We think he'd do anything for a bit of
power."
Parseltongue, the ability to converse with snakes, has long been considered a Dark
Art. Indeed, the most famous Parselmouth of our times is none other than You-
Know-Who himself. A member of the Dark Force Defense League, who wished to
remain unnamed, stated that he would regard any wizard who could speak
Parseltongue "as worthy of investigation. Personally, I would be highly suspicious
of anybody who could converse with snakes, as serpents are often used in the
worst kinds of Dark Magic, and are historically associated with evildoers."
Similarly, "anyone who seeks out the company of such vicious creatures as
werewolves and giants would appear to have a fondness for violence."
Albus Dumbledore should surely consider whether a boy such as this should be
allowed to compete in the Triwizard Tournament. Some fear that Potter might
resort to the Dark Arts in his desperation to win the tournament, the third task of
which takes place this evening.
"Gone off me a bit, hasn't she?" said Harry lightly, folding up the paper.
Over at the Slytherin table, Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle were laughing at him,
tapping their heads with their fingers, pulling grotesquely mad faces, and waggling
their tongues like snakes.
"How did she know your scar hurt in Divination?" Ron said. "There's no way she
was there, there's no way she could've heard -"
"The window was open," said Harry. "I opened it to breathe."
"You were at the top of North Tower!" Hermione said. "Your voice couldn't have
carried all the way down to the grounds!"
"Well, you're the one who's supposed to be researching magical methods of
bugging!" said Harry. "You tell me how she did it!"
"I've been trying!" said Hermione. "But I... but. . ."
397
An odd, dreamy expression suddenly came over Hermione's face. She slowly
raised a hand and ran her fingers through her hair.
"Are you all right?" said Ron, frowning at her.
"Yes," said Hermione breathlessly. She ran her fingers through her hair again, and
then held her hand up to her mouth, as though speaking into an invisible walkietalkie.
Harry and Ron stared at each other.
"I've had an idea," Hermione said, gazing into space. "I think I know. . . because
then no one would be able to see ... even Moody. . . and she'd have been able to
get onto the window ledge . . . but she's not allowed . . . she's definitely not
allowed ... I think we've got her! Just give me two seconds in the library - just to
make sure!"
With that, Hermione seized her school bag and dashed out of the Great Hall.
"Oi!" Ron called after her. "We've got our History of Magic exam in ten minutes!
Blimey," he said, turning back to Harry, "she must really hate that Skeeter woman
to risk missing the start of an exam. What're you going to do in Binns's class - read
again?"
Exempt from the end-of-term tests as a Triwizard champion, Harry had been
sitting in the back of every exam class so far, looking up fresh hexes for the third
task.
"S'pose so," Harry said to Ron; but just then. Professor McGonagall came walking
alongside the Gryffindor table toward him.
"Potter, the champions are congregating in the chamber off the Hall after
breakfast," she said.
"But the task's not till tonight!" said Harry, accidentally spilling scrambled eggs
down his front, afraid he had mistaken the time.
"I'm aware of that, Potter," she said. "The champions' families are invited to watch
the final task, you know. This is simply a chance for you to greet them."
She moved away. Harry gaped after her.
"She doesn't expect the Dursleys to turn up, does she?" he asked Ron blankly.
"Dunno," said Ron. "Harry, I'd better hurry, I'm going to be late for Binns. See you
later."
Harry finished his breakfast in the emptying Great Hall. He saw Fleur Delacour
get up from the Ravenclaw table and join Cedric as he crossed to the side chamber
and entered. Krum slouched off to join them shortly afterward. Harry stayed where
he was. He really didn't want to go into the chamber. He had no family - no family
who would turn up to see him risk his life, anyway. But just as he was getting up,
398
thinking that he might as well go up to the library and do a spot more hex research,
the door of the side chamber opened, and Cedric stuck his head out.
"Harry, come on, they're waiting for you!"
Utterly perplexed. Harry got up. The Dursleys couldn't possibly be here, could
they? He walked across the Hall and opened the door into the chamber.
Cedric and his parents were just inside the door. Viktor Krum was over in a
corner, conversing with his dark-haired mother and father in rapid Bulgarian. He
had inherited his fathers hooked nose. On the other side of the room, Fleur was
jabbering away in French to her mother. Fleur's little sister, Gabrielle, was holding
her mother's hand. She waved at Harry, who waved back, grinning. Then he saw
Mrs. Weasley and Bill standing in front of the fireplace, beaming at him.
"Surprise!" Mrs. Weasley said excitedly as he smiled broadly and walked over to
them. "Thought we'd come and watch you. Harry!" She bent down and kissed him
on the cheek.
"You all right?" said Bill, grinning at Harry and shaking his hand. "Charlie wanted
to come, but he couldn't get time off. He said you were incredible against the
Horntail."
