But Harry didn't care, he wouldn't have cared if Karkaroff had given him zero;
Ron's indignation on his behalf was worth about a hundred points to him. He didn't
tell Ron this, of course, but his heart felt lighter than air as he turned to leave the
enclosure. And it wasn't just Ron. . . those weren't only Gryffindors cheering in the
crowd. When it had come to it, when they had seen what he was facing, most of
the school had been on his side as well as Cedric's. . . . He didn't care about the
Slytherins, he could stand whatever they threw at him now.The Great Hall looked its usual splendid self, decorated for the start-of-term feast.
Golden plates and goblets gleamed by the light of hundreds and hundreds of
candles, floating over the tables in midair. The four long House tables were
packed with chattering students; at the top of the Hall, the staff sat along one side
of a fifth table, facing their pupils. It was much warmer in here. Harry, Ron, and
Hermione walked past the Slytherins, the Ravenclaws, and the Hufflepuffs, and sat
down with the rest of the Gryffindors at the far side of the Hall, next to Nearly
Headless Nick, the Gryffindor ghost. Pearly white and semitransparent, Nick was
dressed tonight in his usual doublet, but with a particularly large ruff, which
served the dual purpose of looking extra-festive, and insuring that his head didn't
wobble too much on his partially severed neck.The villagers of Little Hangleron still called it "the Riddle House," even though it
had been many years since the Riddle family had lived there. It stood on a hill
overlooking the village, some of its windows boarded, tiles missing from its roof,
and ivy spreading unchecked over its face. Once a fine-looking manor, and easily
the largest and grandest building for miles around, the Riddle House was now
damp, derelict, and unoccupied.
The Little Hagletons all agreed that the old house was "creepy." Half a century
ago, something strange and horrible had happened there, something that the older
inhabitants of the village still liked to discuss when topics for gossip were scarce.
The story had been picked over so many times, and had been embroidered in so
many places, that nobody was quite sure what the truth was anymore. Every
version of the tale, however, started in the same place: Fifty years before, at
daybreak on a fine summer's morning when the Riddle House had still been well
kept and impressive, a maid had entered the drawing room to find all three Riddles
dead.
The maid had run screaming down the hill into the village and roused as many
people as she could.
"Lying there with their eyes wide open! Cold as ice! Still in their dinner things!"
The police were summoned, and the whole of Little Hangleton had seethed with
shocked curiosity and ill-disguised excitement. Nobody wasted their breath
pretending to feel very sad about the Riddles, for they had been most unpopular.
Elderly Mr. and Mrs. Riddle had been rich, snobbish, and rude, and their grown-up
son, Tom, had been, if anything, worse. All the villagers cared about was the
identity of their murderer -- for plainly, three apparently healthy people did not all
drop dead of natural causes on the same night.
The Hanged Man, the village pub, did a roaring trade that night; the whole village
seemed to have turned out to discuss the murders. They were rewarded for leaving
their firesides when the Riddles' cook arrived dramatically in their midst and
announced to the suddenly silent pub that a man called Frank Bryce had just been
arrested.
"Frank!" cried several people. "Never!"
Frank Bryce was the Riddles' gardener. He lived alone in a run-down cottage on
the grounds of the Riddle House. Frank had come back from the war with a very
stiff leg and a great dislike of crowds and loud noises, and had been working for
the Riddles ever since.Dumbledore stood up. He stared down at Barty Crouch for a moment with disgust
on his face. Then he raised his wand once more and ropes flew out of it, ropes that
twisted themselves around Barty Crouch, binding him tightly. He turned to
Professor McGonagall.
"Minerva, could I ask you to stand guard here while I take Harry upstairs?"
"Of course," said Professor McGonagall. She looked slightly nauseous, as though
she had just watched someone being sick. However, when she drew out her wand
and pointed it at Barty Crouch, her hand was quite steady.
"Severus" - Dumbledore turned to Snape - "please tell Madam Pomfrey to come
down here; we need to get Alastor Moody into the hospital wing. Then go down
into the grounds, find Cornelius Fudge, and bring him up to this office. He will
undoubtedly want to question Crouch himself. Tell him I will be in the hospital
wing in half an hour's time if he needs me."
Snape nodded silently and swept out of the room.
"Harry?" Dumbledore said gently.
Harry got up and swayed again; the pain in his leg, which he had not noticed all
the time he had been listening to Crouch, now returned in full measure. He also
realized that he was shaking. Dumbledore gripped his arm and helped him out into
the dark corridor.
"I want you to come up to my office first. Harry," he said quiedy as they headed
up the passageway. "Sirius is waiting for us there."
Harry nodded. A kind of numbness and a sense of complete unreality were upon
him, but he did not care; he was even glad of it. He didn't want to have to think
about anything that had happened since he had first touched the Triwizard Cup. He
didn't want to have to examine the memories, fresh and sharp as photographs,
which kept flashing across his mind. Mad-Eye Moody, inside the trunk. Wormtail,
slumped on the ground, cradling his stump of an arm. Voldemort, rising from the
steaming cauldron. Cedric. . . dead . . . Cedric, asking to be returned to his parents.
. . .
"Professor," Harry mumbled, "where are Mr. and Mrs. Diggory?"
"They are with Professor Sprout," said Dumbledore. His voice, which had been so
calm throughout the interrogation of Barty Crouch, shook very slightly for the first
time. "She was Head of Cedric's house, and knew him best."
They had reached the stone gargoyle. Dumbledore gave the password, it sprang
448
aside, and he and Harry went up the moving spiral staircase to the oak door.
Dumbledore pushed it open. Sirius was standing there. His face was white and
gaunt as it had been when he had escaped Azkaban. In one swift moment, he had
crossed the room.
"Harry, are you all right? I knew it - I knew something like this - what happened?"
His hands shook as he helped Harry into a chair in front of the desk.
"What happened?" he asked more urgently.
Dumbledore began to tell Sirius everything Barty Crouch had said. Harry was only
half listening. So tired every bone in his body was aching, he wanted nothing more
than to sit here, undisturbed, for hours and hours, until he fell asleep and didn't
have to think or feel anymore.
There was a soft rush of wings. Fawkes the phoenix had left his perch, flown
across the office, and landed on Harry's knee.
"'Lo, Fawkes," said Harry quietly. He stroked the phoenix's beautiful scarlet-andgold
plumage. Fawkes blinked peacefully up at him. There was something
comforting about his warm weight.
Dumbledore stopped talking. He sat down opposite Harry, behind his desk. He
was looking at Harry, who avoided his eyes. Dumbledore was going to question
him. He was going to make Harry relive everything.
"I need to know what happened after you touched the Portkey in the maze. Harry,"
said Dumbledore.
"We can leave that till morning, can't we, Dumbledore?" said Sirius harshly. He
had put a hand on Harrys shoulder. "Let him have a sleep. Let him rest."
Harry felt a rush of gratitude toward Sirius, but Dumbledore took no notice of
Sirius's words. He leaned forward toward Harry.
Very unwillingly, Harry raised his head and looked into those blue eyes.
"If I thought I could help you," Dumbledore said gently, "by putting you into an
enchanted sleep and allowing you to postpone the moment when you would have
to think about what has happened tonight, I would do it. But I know better.
Numbing the pain for a while will make it worse when you finally feel it. You
have shown bravery beyond anything I could have expected of you. I ask you to
demonstrate your courage one more time. I ask you to tell us what happened."
The phoenix let out one soft, quavering note. It shivered in the air, and Harry felt
as though a drop of hot liquid had slipped down his throat into his stomach,
warming him, and strengthening him.
He took a deep breath and began to tell them. As he spoke, visions of everything
449
that had passed that night seemed to rise before his eyes; he saw the sparkling
surface of the potion that had revived Voldemort; he saw the Death Eaters
Apparating between the graves around them; he saw Cedric's body, lying on the
ground beside the cup.
Once or twice, Sirius made a noise as though about to say something, his hand still
tight on Harry's shoulder, but Dumbledore raised his hand to stop him, and Harry
was glad of this, because it was easier to keep going now he had started. It was
even a relief; he felt almost as though something poisonous were being extracted
from him. It was costing him every bit of determination he had to keep talking, yet
he sensed that once he had finished, he would feel better.
When Harry told of Wormtail piercing his arm with the dagger, however, Sirius let
out a vehement exclamation and Dumbledore stood up so quickly that Harry
started. Dumbledore walked around the desk and told Harry to stretch out his arm.
Harry showed them both the place where his robes were torn and the cut beneath
them.
"He said my blood would make him stronger than if he'd used someone else's,"
Harry told Dumbledore. "He said the protection my - my mother left in me - he'd
have it too. And he was right - he could touch me without hurting himself, he
touched my face."
For a fleeting instant, Harry thought he saw a gleam of something like triumph in
Dumbledore's eyes. But next second. Harry was sure he had imagined it, for when
Dumbledore had returned to his seat behind the desk, he looked as old and weary
as Harry had ever seen him.
"Very well," he said, sitting down again. "Voldemort has overcome that particular
barrier. Harry, continue, please."
Harry went on; he explained how Voldemort had emerged from the cauldron, and
told them all he could remember of Voldemort's speech to the Death Eaters. Then
he told how Voldemort had untied him, returned his wand to him, and prepared to
duel.
