It now came to Harry that he had been dreaming, and was back now in his real life. However, Harry’s real life is nothing like ours. Harry is a wizard. Though, not a full wizard yet. He is still a student at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.
Harry threw his covers off himself, and climbed groggily out of bed. Every second he moved, he lost more and more memory of the dream he had. He remembered seeing his mom… and something about Voldemort… but that was it.
He groped around the table next to his bed fro his glasses and put them on. Now his room came into focus and he walked over to his closet to pick out some clothes.
“HARRY!”, yelled the voice. Now Harry knew who was making it, his Aunt Petunia. His door exploded open and his she blasted through.
“Harry get down here this- oh!”, she saw Harry while he was changing his pants and all he had on was his underwear. She quickly backed out of the room and yelled, just as loudly as before, “Get downstairs now! It’s Dudley’s birthday, and you’re late! We need you to make breakfast!”
Harry heard her go downstairs. Harry quickly finished changing into his clothes and went to the door. He opened it, and turned around to look at his room before he went down. It contained many things that would be in our dreams: there was a cauldron by his bed that contained books on magic. Next to the window in his room was an owl cage that contained Harry’s owl, Hedwig. She was a snowy white owl that was used to send and receive letters. Harry’s two most recent letters were on his wall next to Hedwig. Once was from Hermione Granger, one of Harry’s best friends from Hogwarts. It read:
Dear Harry,
Since I won’t be able to send you another letter soon, happy birthday. I am having a great time here with Viktor at his house, I hope you are doing well with your aunt and uncle. Even though I’ve been with Viktor, I have been doing a lot of thinking, especially about what Dumbledore said last year. Since You-Know-Who (most wizards were too afraid to use Voldemort’s real name, so they said ‘You-Know-Who’ instead) is back, you’ll have to be extra careful since you do seem to run into him often. I’ve also been wondering about what the jobs are that Dumbledore sent everyone to do. I guess we’ll find out this September.
Sincerely,
Hermione
That letter was exactly like Hermione. Always worried and concerned, though never forgetting to do work. However, she did have some good points. Harry was wondering about what Dumbledore said last year. He sent Hagrid (the groundskeeper at Hogwarts) on a secret Summer job, he sent Professor Snape (Harry’s potion’s teacher who was Harry’s only reason to dislike Hogwarts) as some sort of spy to Voldemort, and Dumbledore asked the rest of the professors to “gather the old crowd”.
Harry was also surprised, in reading Hermione’s letter, that she did go to Krum’s mansion for the Summer. Viktor Krum is an excellent Quidditch player, he is the Seeker on the Bulgarian Quidditch team, the same position Harry plays on the Hogwarts Gryffindor House’s Quidditch team. At the end of the year, she said she was still
4
“thinking about it”, so Harry assumed she wasn’t going to go. He couldn’t wait to get back to Hogwarts and ask her all about it.
The other letter on Harry’s wall was from his other best friend at Hogwarts, Ron Weasley. It read:
Hey Harry! Hope you’re well, I know we’re not doing too good here. That money you gave Fred and George last year, I’m not sure if that was such a good idea. They now seem more determined than ever to set up their joke shop, and since they got so much money from you for funding, mom can’t object to them doing it. Every day, it seems, they have some new invention that they’re more than willing to test out on us. When we’re not turning into an animal or something from eating a candy, our faces turn green, or we grow an extra ear on our forehead.
Because of the chaos here, I doubt we’ll be able to come over and help you if the Muggles try and keep you from coming back to Hogwarts, or just make you miserable. So, I gave Pig a map that leads you from your house to our house. It took a while to make since dad’s Muggle maps can’t talk. I hope you don’t have to use it in an emergency, but go ahead and use it to get here for fun!
See ya soon!
Ron
Harry had the map in his pocket at all times, just in case he needed it. Even though the names of the roads and towns were written very messily, Harry guessed he could just fly to the Weasley’s house on his broomstick if he really had to.
Harry couldn’t help but laugh when he came to the part about Fred and George’s joke shop. Last year, Fred and George (Ron’s older identical twin brothers) decided they wanted to open up a joke store (called Weasley’s Wizard Wheezes) and make their living doing that. Mrs. Weasley, whose other three sons had graduated from Hogwarts and gone into “respectable” businesses (except for maybe Charlie who bred Dragons), would have nothing to do with their joke shop idea and destroyed all their inventions. Later that year, Harry won a tournament at school, and got a thousand galleons (quite a sum of money in the wizarding world). Already having a small fortune inherited from his parents, Harry gave the money to Fred and George to support their business since he liked the idea.
“HARRY! GET DOWN HERE NOW!” came a giant booming voice from downstairs. The voice belonged to his Uncle Vernon, obviously upset that Harry had taken so long to come down. However, Harry was used to this kind of treatment. The Dursley’s hated magic in any form and, because of this, they despised Harry.
So, even though Harry was used to this way of communication, he thought it best to not upset Uncle Vernon any more, and he started on his way downstairs, which turned out to be a good deal more difficult than other trips doing the same. Every step was littered with wrapping paper, boxes, cards, tape, bubble wrap, and even some forgotten presents. Though he tripped twice (once on a box, and on a shirt), Harry eventually made his way to the bottom of the staircase, and headed to the kitchen where he tended to the bacon and pancakes on the stove. His cousin, Dudley was sitting at the table that was an island in the sea of wrappings. He was opening another present right now.
5
“Oooh another present! I wonder what it could be!” said Dudley as he tore open the next box in a giant pile next to him. Within two seconds, the present was open, and Dudley pulled out a giant red shirt. “Oh no, not another one!”
“Another XXXXXXXL shirt Dudley?” laughed Uncle Vernon as Dudley began opening his next gift. “Well then, just be glad that you can’t wear them anymore anyway.” It was true though. Last Summer, Dudley might have been too small for that shirt but, since his school, Smeltings, did not store uniforms in that size, Dudley was forced on an extreme diet that must’ve been enforced throughout his entire year there due to the amazing amount of weight he lost. Dudley was just a little bigger than Harry now, who was extremely skinny after being practically starved by the Dursleys for ten years.
“Yes!” said Dudley after opening his latest present. It was evidently some video game he had wanted as that was the only thing that could make Dudley so happy. Then, when Dudley reached for his next present, he let out a shriek.
“Ah! There’s only one left! Oh, but it’s a big one!” Dudley walked over to the giant box which was at least as tall as Harry, and about five times as wide. Dudley climbed on top, and ripped the ribbon off as fast as he could. Aunt Petunia and Uncle Vernon were smiling in the back.
“Oh man! This one’s gotta be good!” Dudley threw off the last of the wrapping to reveal…
“Another box!” yelled Dudley. This made Harry look over from the stove. Wrapped in the box that Dudley had just opened was another box that was identical to the previous one in every way, except for the fact that it was smaller. However, this did not make Dudley and less determined, in fact he looked as though this was a present he really wanted to conquer.
Just as Dudley threw off the ribbon of the latest box, Harry let out a laugh. Another box was inside that one, once again, identical to the last. Dudley quickly ripped through that one, and the present inside was again a box.
This continued for fourteen more boxes until Dudley, looking like he might explode at any second, opened the last one which was about the size of a hamburger. Instead of there being another box inside, there was an envelope. Dudley opened it, and nearly fainted.