‘He shall. I will see to that. Uncle and nephew have been murdered—the one frightened to death by the very sight of a beast which he thought to be supernatural, the other driven to his end in his wild flight to escape from it. But now we have to prove the connection between the man and the beast. Save from what we heard, we cannot even swear to the existence of the latter, since Sir Henry has evidently died from the fall. But, by heavens, cunning as he is, the fellow shall be in my power before another day is past!’
We stood with bitter hearts on either side of the mangled body, overwhelmed by this sudden and irrevocable disaster which had brought all our long and weary labours to so piteous an end. Then, as the moon rose we climbed to the top of the rocks over which our poor friend had fallen, and from the summit we gazed out over the shadowy moor, half silver and half gloom. Far away, miles off, in the direction of Grimpen, a single steady yellow light was shining. It could only come from the lonely abode of the Stapletons. With a bitter curse I shook my fist at it as I gazed.
‘Why should we not seize him at once?’
‘Our case is not complete. The fellow is wary and cunning to the last degree. It is not what we know, but
The Hound of the Baskervilles
216 of 279
what we can prove. If we make one false move the villain may escape us yet.’
‘What can we do?’
‘There will be plenty for us to do to-morrow. To-night we can only perform the last offices to our poor friend.’
Together we made our way down the precipitous slope and approached the body, black and clear against the silvered stones. The agony of those contorted limbs struck me with a spasm of pain and blurred my eyes with tears.
‘We must send for help, Holmes! We cannot carry him all the way to the Hall. Good heavens, are you mad?’
He had uttered a cry and bent over the body. Now he was dancing and laughing and wringing my hand. Could this be my stern, self-contained friend? These were hidden fires, indeed!
‘A beard! A beard! The man has a beard!’
‘A beard?’
‘It is not the baronet—it is—why, it is my neighbour, the convict!’
With feverish haste we had turned the body over, and that dripping beard was pointing up to the cold, clear moon. There could be no doubt about the beetling forehead, the sunken animal eyes. It was indeed the same
The Hound of the Baskervilles
217 of 279
face which had glared upon me in the light of the candle from over the rock—the face of Selden, the criminal.
Then in an instant it was all clear to me. I remembered how the baronet had told me that he had handed his old wardrobe to Barrymore. Barrymore had passed it on in order to help Selden in his escape. Boots, shirt, cap—it was all Sir Henry’s. The tragedy was still black enough, but this man had at least deserved death by the laws of his country. I told Holmes how the matter stood, my heart bubbling over with thankfulness and joy.
‘Then the clothes have been the poor devil’s death,’ said he. ‘It is clear enough that the hound has been laid on from some article of Sir Henry’s—the boot which was abstracted in the hotel, in all probability—and so ran this man down. There is one very singular thing, however: How came Selden, in the darkness, to know that the hound was on his trail?’
‘He heard him.’
‘To hear a hound upon the moor would not work a hard man like this convict into such a paroxysm of terror that he would risk recapture by screaming wildly for help. By his cries he must have run a long way after he knew the animal was on his track. How did he know?’
The Hound of the Baskervilles
218 of 279
‘A greater mystery to me is why this hound, presuming that all our conjectures are correct —‘
‘I presume nothing.’
‘Well, then, why this hound should be loose to-night. I suppose that it does not always run loose upon the moor. Stapleton would not let it go unless he had reason to think that Sir Henry would be there.’
‘My difficulty is the more formidable of the two, for I think that we shall very shortly get an explanation of yours, while mine may remain forever a mystery. The question now is, what shall we do with this poor wretch’s body? We cannot leave it here to the foxes and the ravens.’
‘I suggest that we put it in one of the huts until we can communicate with the police.’
‘Exactly. I have no doubt that you and I could carry it so far. Halloa, Watson, what’s this? It’s the man himself, by all that’s wonderful and audacious! Not a word to show your suspicions—not a word, or my plans crumble to the ground.’
A figure was approaching us over the moor, and I saw the dull red glow of a cigar. The moon shone upon him, and I could distinguish the dapper shape and jaunty walk
The Hound of the Baskervilles
219 of 279
of the naturalist. He stopped when he saw us, and then came on again.
‘Why, Dr. Watson, that’s not you, is it? You are the last man that I should have expected to see out on the moor at this time of night. But, dear me, what’s this? Somebody hurt? Not—don’t tell me that it is our friend Sir Henry!’ He hurried past me and stooped over the dead man. I heard a sharp intake of his breath and the cigar fell from his fingers.
‘Who—who’s this?’ he stammered.
‘It is Selden, the man who escaped from Princetown.’
Stapleton turned a ghastly face upon us, but by a supreme effort he had overcome his amazement and his disappointment. He looked sharply from Holmes to me.
‘Dear me! What a very shocking affair! How did he die?’
‘He appears to have broken his neck by falling over these rocks. My friend and I were strolling on the moor when we heard a cry.’
‘I heard a cry also. That was what brought me out. I was uneasy about Sir Henry.’
‘Why about Sir Henry in particular?’ I could not help asking.
The Hound of the Baskervilles
220 of 279
‘Because I had suggested that he should come over. When he did not come I was surprised, and I naturally became alarmed for his safety when I heard cries upon the moor. By the way’—his eyes darted again from my face to Holmes’s—‘did you hear anything else besides a cry?’
‘No,’ said Holmes; ‘did you?’
‘No.’
‘What do you mean, then?’
‘Oh, you know the stories that the peasants tell about a phantom hound, and so on. It is said to be heard at night upon the moor. I was wondering if there were any evidence of such a sound to-night.’
‘We heard nothing of the kind,’ said I.
‘And what is your theory of this poor fellow’s death?’
‘I have no doubt that anxiety and exposure have driven him off his head. He has rushed about the moor in a crazy state and eventually fallen over here and broken his neck.’
‘That seems the most reasonable theory,’ said Stapleton, and he gave a sigh which I took to indicate his relief. ‘What do you think about it, Mr. Sherlock Holmes?’
My friend bowed his compliments.
‘You are quick at identification,’ said he.
‘We have been expecting you in these parts since Dr. Watson came down. You are in time to see a tragedy.’