There are several points upon which we still want light—but it is coming all the same.’
‘We’ve had one experience, as Watson has no doubt told you. We heard the hound on the moor, so I can swear that it is not all empty superstition. I had something to do with dogs when I was out West, and I know one when I hear one. If you can muzzle that one and put him on a chain I’ll be ready to swear you are the greatest detective of all time.’
‘I think I will muzzle him and chain him all right if you will give me your help.’
‘Whatever you tell me to do I will do.’
‘Very good; and I will ask you also to do it blindly, without always asking the reason.’
‘Just as you like.’
‘If you will do this I think the chances are that our little problem will soon be solved. I have no doubt——‘
He stopped suddenly and stared fixedly up over my head into the air. The lamp beat upon his face, and so intent was it and so still that it might have been that of a clear-cut classical statue, a personification of alertness and expectation.
‘What is it?’ we both cried.
The Hound of the Baskervilles
229 of 279
I could see as he looked down that he was repressing some internal emotion. His features were still composed, but his eyes shone with amused exultation.
‘Excuse the admiration of a connoisseur,’ said he as he waved his hand towards the line of portraits which covered the opposite wall. ‘Watson won’t allow that I know anything of art, but that is mere jealousy, because our views upon the subject differ. Now, these are a really very fine series of portraits.’
‘Well, I’m glad to hear you say so,’ said Sir Henry, glancing with some surprise at my friend. ‘I don’t pretend to know much about these things, and I’d be a better judge of a horse or a steer than of a picture. I didn’t know that you found time for such things.’
‘I know what is good when I see it, and I see it now. That’s a Kneller, I’ll swear, that lady in the blue silk over yonder, and the stout gentleman with the wig ought to be a Reynolds. They are all family portraits, I presume?’
‘Every one.’
‘Do you know the names?’
‘Barrymore has been coaching me in them, and I think I can say my lessons fairly well.’
‘Who is the gentleman with the telescope?’
The Hound of the Baskervilles
230 of 279
‘That is Rear-Admiral Baskerville, who served under Rodney in the West Indies. The man with the blue coat and the roll of paper is Sir William Baskerville, who was Chairman of Committees of the House of Commons under Pitt.’
‘And this Cavalier opposite to me—the one with the black velvet and the lace?’
‘Ah, you have a right to know about him. That is the cause of all the mischief, the wicked Hugo, who started the Hound of the Baskervilles. We’re not likely to forget him.’
I gazed with interest and some surprise upon the portrait.
‘Dear me!’ said Holmes, ‘he seems a quiet, meek-mannered man enough, but I dare say that there was a lurking devil in his eyes. I had pictured him as a more robust and ruffianly person.’
‘There’s no doubt about the authenticity, for the name and the date, 1647, are on the back of the canvas.’
Holmes said little more, but the picture of the old roysterer seemed to have a fascination for him, and his eyes were continually fixed upon it during supper. It was not until later, when Sir Henry had gone to his room, that I was able to follow the trend of his thoughts. He led me
The Hound of the Baskervilles
231 of 279
back into the banqueting-hall, his bedroom candle in his hand, and he held it up against the time-stained portrait on the wall.
‘Do you see anything there?’
I looked at the broad plumed hat, the curling love-locks, the white lace collar, and the straight, severe face which was framed between them. It was not a brutal countenance, but it was prim, hard, and stern, with a firm-set, thin-lipped mouth, and a coldly intolerant eye.
‘Is it like anyone you know?’
‘There is something of Sir Henry about the jaw.’
‘Just a suggestion, perhaps. But wait an instant!’ He stood upon a chair, and, holding up the light in his left hand, he curved his right arm over the broad hat and round the long ringlets.
‘Good heavens!’ I cried, in amazement.
The face of Stapleton had sprung out of the canvas.
‘Ha, you see it now. My eyes have been trained to examine faces and not their trimmings. It is the first quality of a criminal investigator that he should see through a disguise.’
‘But this is marvellous. It might be his portrait.’
‘Yes, it is an interesting instance of a throwback, which appears to be both physical and spiritual. A study of family
The Hound of the Baskervilles
232 of 279
portraits is enough to convert a man to the doctrine of reincarnation. The fellow is a Baskerville—that is evident.’
‘With designs upon the succession.’
‘Exactly. This chance of the picture has supplied us with one of our most obvious missing links. We have him, Watson, we have him, and I dare swear that before to-morrow night he will be fluttering in our net as helpless as one of his own butterflies. A pin, a cork, and a card, and we add him to the Baker Street collection!’ He burst into one of his rare fits of laughter as he turned away from the picture. I have not heard him laugh often, and it has always boded ill to somebody.
I was up betimes in the morning, but Holmes was afoot earlier still, for I saw him as I dressed, coming up the drive.
‘Yes, we should have a full day to-day,’ he remarked, and he rubbed his hands with the joy of action. ‘The nets are all in place, and the drag is about to begin. We’ll know before the day is out whether we have caught our big, lean-jawed pike, or whether he has got through the meshes.’
‘Have you been on the moor already?’
‘I have sent a report from Grimpen to Princetown as to the death of Selden. I think I can promise that none of
The Hound of the Baskervilles
233 of 279
you will be troubled in the matter. And I have also communicated with my faithful Cartwright, who would certainly have pined away at the door of my hut, as a dog does at his master’s grave, if I had not set his mind at rest about my safety.’
‘What is the next move?’
‘To see Sir Henry. Ah, here he is!’
‘Good morning, Holmes,’ said the baronet. ‘You look like a general who is planning a battle with his chief of the staff.’
‘That is the exact situation. Watson was asking for orders.’
‘And so do I.’
‘Very good. You are engaged, as I understand, to dine with our friends the Stapletons to-night.’
‘I hope that you will come also. They are very hospitable people, and I am sure that they would be very glad to see you.’
‘I fear that Watson and I must go to London.’
‘To London?’
‘Yes, I think that we should be more useful there at the present juncture.’
The baronet’s face perceptibly lengthened.